


































































































     A day or two passed, and there was great
     Aft here, ye sons of bachelors, he cried, as the sailors lingered at the
     Ain't that queer, now?  But there's no telling, it's the old game --Here goes
     All about it, eh --sure you do? --all?  Pretty sure.  With finger pointed
     Already we are boldly launched upon the
     As Queequeg and I are now fairly embarked
     As Queequeg's Ramadan, or Fasting and
     As we were walking down the end of the wharf
     At length, towards noon, upon the
     Aye, aye, said Stubb, the second mate, Starbuck, there, is as careful a
     Because it's dangerous, says she.  Ever since young Stiggs coming from that
     But this insult is whittled down to a point only."  But now comes the
     Come hither to me --hither, hither, said Peleg, with a significance in his
     Elijah.  Elijah!  thought I, and we walked away, both commenting, after
     Every once and a while Peleg came hobbling out of his whalebone den, roaring
     Fiery pit!  fiery pit!  ye insult me, man; past all natural bearing, ye
     First Congregational Church, cried Bildad, what!  that worships in Deacon
     For several days after leaving Nantucket,
     God!  who didst not refuse to the swart convict, Bunyan, the pale, poetic
     I am the architect, not the builder.  But it is a ponderous task; no ordinary
     I don't know anything about Deacon Deuteronomy or his meeeting, said I,
     I endeavored to prevail upon Queequeg to take a chair; but in vain.  There
     I had heard something of both Captain Peleg and his unaccountable old crony
     In bed we concocted our plans for the morrow.
     In behalf of the dignity of whaling, I
     It was nearly six o'clock, but only grey
     It's very queer.  Stop, Stubb; somehow, now, I don't well know whether to go
     Life was what Captain Ahab and I was thinking of; and how to save all hands
     Little Flask was one of the wrought ones; made to clinch tight and last
     Look ye; when captain Ahab is all right, then this left arm of mine will be
     Man the capstan!  Blood and thunder! --jump! --was the next command, and the
     Mast-head, there!  Look sharp, all of ye!  There are whales hereabouts!  If
     My friend, said I, what all this gibberish of yours is about, I don't
     Nantucket.  So down we went into the cabin, and to my great joy Queequeg
     Next morning Stubb accosted Flask.  Such a
     No, sir; not yet, said Stubb, emboldened, I will not tamely be called a
     Peleg!  Peleg!  said Bildad, lifting his eyes and hands, thou thyself, as
     Quick, I say, you Bildad, and get the ship's papers.  We must have Hedgehog
     See if you can find 'em now, will ye?  Find who?  Morning to ye!  morning
     Shipmates, have ye shipped in that ship?
     Some chapters back, one Bulkington was
     Some days elapsed, and ice
     Stop!  cried the stranger.  Ye said true --ye hav'n't seen Old Thunder yet,
     Stubb was the second mate.  He
     That's true, that's true --yes, both true enough.  But you must jump when he
     The chief mate of the Pequod was
     Thou knowest best, was the sepulchral reply, the seven hundred and
     Very dim, very dim, said Elijah.  Morning to ye.  Once more we quitted him;
     Well, Captain Bildad, interrupted Peleg, what d'ye say, what lay shall we
     Whaling not respectable?  Whaling is imperial!  By old English statutory
     What do you mean, sir?  Was the other one lost by a whale?  Lost by a whale!
     When Stubb had departed, Ahab stood for a
     When close to the whale, in the very death-lock of the fight, he handled his
     When on that shivering winter's night, the Pequod thrust her vindictive bows
     Who is Captain Ahab, sir?  Aye, aye, I thought so.  Captain Ahab is the
     Yes, I thought I did see four or five men; but it was too dim to be sure.
     You mean the ship Pequod, I suppose, said I, trying to gain a little more
     Young man, come nearer to me: it was devoured, chewed up, crunched by the
     a mature man who uses hair-oil, unless medicinally, that man has probably got
     accidental advantages, to learn a bold and nervous lofty language --that man
     all I know is, that Queequeg here is a born member of the First
     and
     and on that side of it retraced our steps.  But Elijah passed on, without
     and seated himself at a little table.  I began to think it was high time to
     blazes!  he called me ten times a donkey, and piled a lot of jackasses on
     blood in their veins?  They have something better than royal blood there.
     deck, where we followed him.  There he stood, very quietly overlooking some
     did kick me, and I didn't observe it, I was so taken all aback with his brow,
     dollars; and every year importing into our harbors a well reaped harvest of 00847,000,000 dollars.  How comes all this, if there be not something puissant in
     famous author, and whaling no famous chronicler?  Who wrote the first
     for a snooze.  Damn me, it's worth a fellow's while to be born into the
     he breathed at last, who be ye smokers?  Shipped men, answered I, when
     her original grotesqueness, and inlaid it, all over, with a quaintness both
     here needs the grindstone.  That's he; thank ye, Bildad.  Now then, my young
     his totality.  But the only thing to be considered here, is this --what kind
     in that we all join hands.  Splice, thou mean'st splice hands, cried
     it's better to sail with a moody good captain than a laughing bad one.  So
     lays, and that these lays were proportioned to the degree of importance
     leg, didn't he?" "Yes, he did," says I. "Well then," says he, "wise Stubb,
     one arm elevated, and holding by a shroud; Captain Ahab stood erect, looking
     one way nor the other way, but sat like a carved image with scarce a sign of
     pay to her whalemen in bounties upwards of 1,000,000
     pounds?  And lastly, how comes it that we whalemen of America now outnumber
     resisted.  Running down stairs, I quickly stated my suspicions to the first
     that come to pass; ere the Pequod's weedy hull rolls side by side with the
     them tragic graces; if even the most mournful, perchance the most abased,
     they came with an indifferent air; and while engaged in the most imminent
     though he twitched a little as if still nervously agitated.  Whew!  he
     thy last Captain, didst thou? --Dost not think of murdering the officers when
     to be regarded among landsmen as a rather unpoetical and disreputable
     which way to it?  Run for God's sake, and fetch something to pry open the
     who have at large or in little, written of the whale.  Run over a few: --The
     you never saw such a rare old craft as this same rare old Pequod.  She was a
     your boast, Stubb, that ye were kicked by old Ahab, and made a wise man of.
"Halloa," says I,"what's the matter now, old fellow?" "Look ye here," says
'em!  Morning to ye, shipmates, morning; the ineffable heavens bless ye; I'm
(sperm whale), says Surgeon Beale, A. D.
,
, Linnaeus declares, I hereby separate the whales
-- come along with ye.  And so saying, he led the way below deck into the
--How?  how?  how? --but the only way's
--and Yojo had told him two or three times over, and strongly insisted upon it
--and with that she seized my arm.  What's the matter with you?  What's the
--but never mind, never mind --it's all one, all in the family too; --sharp
--ever been in a stove boat?  No, Sir, I never have.  Dost know nothing at
--good luck to 'em; and they are all the better off for it.  A soul's a sort
--he would mutter to himself, -- for an old captain like me to be descending
--how to rig jury-masts -- how to get into the nearest port; that was what I
--might as well kill both birds at once.  Kill?  The Lord be merciful to his
--now a word below, and now a word with Starbuck, the chief mate.  But, at
--say your last.  Luck to ye, Starbuck --luck to ye, Mr. Stubb --luck to ye,
--something like me --only there's a good deal more of him.  Aye, aye, I know
--this day darting the barbed iron from one side of the world to the other.
--which I felt, yet whenever I came to look about me in the ship, it seemed
--worse nor a toothache.  Well, well; I don't know what it is, but the Lord
.  It is not my intention, were it in my power, to enter
.  Unfitness to pursue our
.. < chapter xix 2  THE PROPHET >
.. < chapter xvi 2  THE SHIP >
.. < chapter xvii 2  THE RAMADAN >
.. < chapter xviii 2  HIS MARK >
.. < chapter xx 15  ALL ASTIR >
.. < chapter xxi 2  GOING ABOARD >
.. < chapter xxii 12  MERRY CHRISTMAS >
.. < chapter xxiii 28  THE LEE SHORE >
.. < chapter xxiv 2  THE ADVOCATE >
.. < chapter xxix 2  ENTER AHAB; TO HIM, STUBB >
.. < chapter xxv 27  POSTSCRIPT >
.. < chapter xxvi 26  KNIGHTS AND SQUIRES >
.. < chapter xxvii 2  KNIGHTS AND SQUIRES >
.. < chapter xxviii 11  AHAB >
.. < chapter xxx 4  THE PIPE >
.. < chapter xxxi 2  QUEEN MAB >
.. < chapter xxxii 6  CETOLOGY >
.. <p 100 >
.. <p 100 >
.. <p 101 >
.. <p 102 >
.. <p 103 >
.. <p 104 >
.. <p 104 >
.. <p 105 >
.. <p 106 >
.. <p 107 >
.. <p 108 >
.. <p 109 >
.. <p 109n. >
.. <p 110 >
.. <p 110 >
.. <p 110n. >
.. <p 111 >
.. <p 111 >
.. <p 112 >
.. <p 113 >
.. <p 114 >
.. <p 115 >
.. <p 116 >
.. <p 117 >
.. <p 118 >
.. <p 119 >
.. <p 119 >
.. <p 120 >
.. <p 121 >
.. <p 122 >
.. <p 123 >
.. <p 124 >
.. <p 125 >
.. <p 126 >
.. <p 126 >
.. <p 127 >
.. <p 128 >
.. <p 129 >
.. <p 129 >
.. <p 130 >
.. <p 131 >
.. <p 67 >
.. <p 68 >
.. <p 69 >
.. <p 70 >
.. <p 71 >
.. <p 72 >
.. <p 73 >
.. <p 74 >
.. <p 75 >
.. <p 76 >
.. <p 77 >
.. <p 78 >
.. <p 79 >
.. <p 80 >
.. <p 81 >
.. <p 82 >
.. <p 83 >
.. <p 84 >
.. <p 85 >
.. <p 86 >
.. <p 87 >
.. <p 88 >
.. <p 89 >
.. <p 90 >
.. <p 91 >
.. <p 92 >
.. <p 93 >
.. <p 94 >
.. <p 94 >
.. <p 95 >
.. <p 96 >
.. <p 97 >
.. <p 98 >
.. <p 99 >
Africa, Nantucket, and the pagan harbors most frequented by whalemen; and
Ahab lurchingly paced the planks.
Ahab of old, thou knowest, was a crowned king!  And a very vile one.  When
Ahab should be tranquilly laid out --which might hardly come to pass, so he
Ahab well; I've sailed with him as mate years ago; I know what he is--a
Ahab.  But nothing about that thing that happened to him off Cape Horn, long
Ahab.  Some moments passed, during which the thick vapor came from his mouth
Ahasuerus Daggoo, was the Squire of little Flask, who looked like a chess-man
Anacharsis Clootz deputation from all the
And all these subtle agencies, more and more they wrought on Ahab's texture.
And as for the matter of the alleged uncleanliness of our business, ye shall
And, after signing the papers, off I went; nothing doubting but that I had
Any how, young man, he won't always see me, so I don't suppose he will thee.
April and May, trip home to the wintry, misanthropic woods; even the barest,
Arctic whalers; and which by the means of many radiating side timbers
Australian settlement, the emigrants were several times saved
Author of Miriam Coffin; Olmstead; and the Rev.  T. Cheever.  But to what
Authors of the Bible; Aristotle; Pliny; Aldrovandi; Sir Thomas Browne;
Bell, and the hideous dragon; turn from the wrath to come; mind thine eye,
Bildad --come, old shipmate, we must go.  Back the main-yard there!  Boat ahoy!
Bildad lingered long; paced the deck with anxious strides" ran down into the
Bildad, but with a marvellous oblique, sliding celerity, Bildad for that
Bildad, he carried about with him a long list of the articles needed, and at
Bildad, if I had followed thy advice in these matters, I would afore now had
Bildad, said Peleg, he wants to ship.  Dost thee?  said Bildad, in a
Bildad, who always sat so, and never leaned, and this to save his coat
Bildad, who, with Peleg, be it known, in addition to his other offices, was
Bildad, without noticing his present irreverence, quietly looked up, and
Bildad; how that they being the principal proprietors of the Pequod,
Bildad?  As if long habituated to such profane talk from his old shipmate,
Brisson; Marten; Lacepede; Bonneterre; Desmarest; Baron Cuvier; Frederick
But I said nothing, only looking round me sharply.  Peleg now threw open a
But poorly could I withstand them, much as in other moods I was almost ready
But to my surprise and no small concern, Queequeg now gave me to understand,
But when a man suspects any wrong, it sometimes happens that if he be
Canaan stood, While Jordan rolled between.  Never did those sweet words sound
Canterbury Cathedral where Beckett bled.  But to all these her old
Cape Horn, no commerce but colonial, scarcely any intercourse but colonial,
Cape-Cod-man.  A happy-go-lucky; neither craven nor valiant; taking perils as
Captain Ahab is all ready --just spoke to him --nothing more to be got from
Captain Ahab remained invisibly enshrined within his cabin.
Captain Ahab would probably marshal his forces to descend on the whales,
Captain Ahab, no sign of him was yet to be seen; Only, they said he was in the
Captain Ahab?
Captain Bildad.  For loath to depart, yet; very loath to leave, for good, a
Captain Peleg was one of the largest owners of the vessel; the other shares,
Captain Peleg.  Well, bring him along then.
Captain himself.  Thou art speaking to Captain Peleg --that's who ye are
Captain of the Pequod, what dost thou want of him?  he demanded.  I was
Captain of this ship.  I am mistaken then.  I thought I was speaking to the
Charity --Aunt Charity, as everybody called her.  And like a sister of
Christmas; and as the short northern day merged into night, we found
Congregational Church.  He is a deacon himself, Queequeg is.  Young man,
Cuvier; John Hunter; Owen; Scoresby; Beale; Bennett; J. Ross Browne; the
Deuteronomy --why Father Mapple himself couldn't beat it, and he's reckoned
Deuteronomy Coleman's meeting-house?  and so saying, taking out his
Don't stave the boats needlessly, ye harpooneers; good white cedar plank is
Elijah, that I consider you a little impertinent?  No, no, no; I wasn't
First Congregation of this whole worshipping world; we all belong to that;
Fishiest of all fishy places was the Try Pots, which well deserved its name;
Flask?  ain't there a small drop
French grenadier's, who has alike fought in Egypt and Siberia.  Her
Gesner; Ray; Linnaeus; Rondeletius; Willoughby; Green; Artedi; Sibbald;
Glimpses do ye seem to see of that mortally intolerable truth; that all deep,
God's sake, run for the doctor, some one, while I pry it open!  Look here,
Going forward to the forecastle, we found the slide of the scuttle open.
Good again; but then all confess that somehow whaling is not respectable.
Good-bye, good-bye!  Don't keep that cheese too long down in the hold, Mr.
Great, who, with his own royal pen, took down the words from Other, the
Greenland whale is deposed, --the great sperm whale now reigneth!  There are
Greenland whalers sailing out of Hull or London, put in at the Shetland
He breathed with a sort of muffledness; then seemed troubled in the nose;
He kept a whole row of pipes there ready loaded, stuck in a rack, within easy
He put his hand upon the sleeper's rear, as though feeling if it was soft
He would hum over his old rigadig tunes while flank and flank with the most
He's a queer man, Captain Ahab --so some think --but a good one.  Oh, thou'lt
However, my thoughts were at length carried in other directions, so that for
Humiliation, was to continue all day, I did not choose to disturb him till
Hussey, said I, he's alive at all events; so leave us, if you please, and
I could not get into the faintest doze.  I had blown out the candle; and the
I do but less than half like it, sir.  Avast!  gritted Ahab between his set
I dreamed he kicked me with it; and when I tried to kick back, upon my soul,
I hereupon offer my own poor endeavors.  I promise nothing complete; because
I left the ship the day previous; and the prediction of the squaw Tistig;
I myself, hast seen many a perilous time; thou knowest, Peleg, what it is to
I say this continual smoking must have been one cause, at least, of his
I say; oh!  goodness gracious!  steer clear of the fiery pit!  Something of
I softly through the key-hole: --all silent.  I say, Queequeg!  why don't you
I stepped aside from the door to give egress to Bildad, who, I made no doubt,
I then asked Queequeg whether he himself was ever troubled with dyspepsia;
I thought that the 275th lay would be about the fair thing, but would not
I thought.  If ye touch at the islands, Mr. Flask, beware of fornication.
I was already aware that in the whaling business they paid no wages; but all
I was also aware that being a green hand at whaling, my own lay would not be
I was going to ask him some further questions concerning Ahab, when we heard a
I went up stairs to go to bed, feeling quite sure by this time Queequeg must
I will see to this strange affair myself.  Closing the door upon the landlady,
I've heard that he's a good whale-hunter, and a good captain to his crew.
I, Captain Peleg must have been drinking something to-day.  At last the anchor
I.  He's got enough, though, to make up for all deficiencies of that sort in
Indian to be a son of the Prince of the Powers of the Air.  Tashtego was Stubb
Islanders seem to make the best whalemen.  They were nearly all Islanders in
Islands, to receive the full complement of their crew.  Upon the passage
It was so with Ahab; only that now, of late, he seemed so much to live in
Jackson from the pebbles; who didst hurl him upon a war-horse; who didst
Japanese junks; butter-box galliots, and what not; but take my word for it,
Judgment then?  Hear him, hear him now, cried Peleg, marching across the
Khan of the plank, and a king of the sea, and a great lord of Leviathans was
Krusenstern.  For in their succorless emptyhandedness, they, in the
Lents, Ramadans, and prolonged ham-squattings in cold, cheerless rooms were
Leviathans had personally and hereditarily affronted him; and therefore it
Listen to what the best and latest authorities have laid down.  No branch of
Martha's Vineyard, where there still exists the last remnant of a village of
Mary Folger, one of the old settlers of Nantucket, and the ancestress to a
Meantime, overseeing the other part of the ship, Captain Peleg
Mr. Flask --good-bye, and good luck to ye all --and this day three years I'll
Mrs. Hussey soon appeared, with a mustard-pot in one hand and a vinegar-cruet
Nantucket Quakerism, but all his subsequent ocean life, and the sight of many
Nevertheless, the old sea-traditions, the immemorial credulities, popularly
Norwegian whale-hunter of those times!  And who pronounced our glowing eulogy
Now, Bildad, like Peleg, and indeed many other Nantucketers,
Oceans, and would prefer not to be detained.  Ye be, be ye?  Coming back
Oh, that's only nominal!  The whale himself has never figured in any grand
Old age is always wakeful; as if, the longer linked with life, the less man
Owen ever saw living whales; and but one of them was a real professional
Peleg and Bildad, could attend to everything necessary to fit the vessel for
Peleg was vainly trying to mend a pen with his jack-knife, old Bildad, to my
Peleg's obstinate mistake touching his appellative, it stood something like
Peleg, at it again, Bildad, eh?  Ye have been studying those Scriptures,
Peleg, drawing nearer.  Young man, you'd better ship for a missionary,
Peleg, many years her chief-mate, before he commanded another vessel of his
Pequod fitted out for the voyage, and supplied with all her needs, including
Pequod was only making a passage now; not regularly cruising; nearly all
Pequod, --this old Peleg, during the term of his chief-mateship, had built upon
Pequod.  Never say it anywhere.  Captain Ahab did not name himself. 'Twas a
Pequod?  said I, advancing to the door of the tent.  Supposing it be the
Pottowotamie Sachem's head.  A triangular opening faced towards the bows of
Quakers; they are Quakers with a vengeance.  So that there are instances among
Queequeg and I had just left the Pequod, and were sauntering away from the
Queequeg placed great confidence in the excellence of Yojo's judgment and
Queequeg was about to precede me up the stairs, the lady reached forth her
Queequeg's, or rather Yojo's, touching the selection of our craft; I did not
Queequeg, ain't that a live eel in your bowl?  Where's your harpoon?
Queequeg, as if he had been screwed down to the floor.  But as soon as the
Queequeg, don't sit there, said I. Oh!  perry dood seat, said Queequeg, my
Queequeg, then, fasting on his tomahawk pipe, and Yojo warming himself at
Queequeg, with the most unaccountable glances.  Elijah, said I, you will
Queequeg.  But not a word did he reply.  Despairing of him, therefore, I
Railroads.  The same, I say, because in all these cases the native American
Ramadan, or day of fasting, humiliation, and prayer with Queequeg and Yojo
Reference to nearly all the leviathanic allusions in the great poets of past
Remember what I say; be kicked by him; account his kicks honors; and on no
Scandinavian sea-king, or a poetical Pagan Roman.  And when these things unite
Scoresby, A. D.
Scriptural and domestic phrases.  Avast there, avast there, Bildad, avast now
See subsequent chapters for something more on this head.
See subsequent chapters for something more on this head.
Seeing a light, we went down, and found only an old rigger there, wrapped in a
So utterly lost was he to all sense of reverence for the many marvels of their
Somehow, the sight of him struck me so, that I said nothing to Queequeg of
Son of darkness, he added, turning to Queequeg, art thou at present in
Spain, and the establishment of the eternal democracy in those parts.  That
Stand by to come close alongside, now!  Careful, careful! --come, Bildad, boy
Starbuck, a native of Nantucket, and a Quaker by descent.  He was a long,
Starbuck; it'll spoil.  Be careful with the butter --twenty cents the pound it
Stubb," I thought I might as well fall to kicking the pyramid again.  But I
System of Nature, A. D.
The Captain came aboard last night.  What Captain? --Ahab?  Who but him
The grandmother of Benjamin Franklin was Mary Morrel" afterwards, by marriage,
The seven hundred and seventy-seventh lay, Captain Peleg.  Thou Bildad!
The space between the decks was small; and there, bolt-upright, sat old
There was a fishy flavor to the milk, too, which I could not at all account
Think of Death and the Judgment then?  No!  no time to think about Death then.
Thou beliest thine own heart, Peleg.  Tell me, when this same Pequod here had
Vineyard.  But what takes thee a-whaling?  I want to know that before I think
Vineyarder, a Cape man.  Now, it being Christmas when the ship shot from out
Whale Fishery) to his visiting card, such a procedure would be deemed
What am I that I should essay to hook the nose of this leviathan!  The awful
When all preliminaries were over and Peleg had got everything ready for
Wherefore he had no fancy for lowering for whales after sun-down; nor for
Without saying a word, Queequeg, in his wild sort of way, jumped upon the
Ye hav'n't seen him yet, have ye?  No, we hav'n't.  He's sick they say, but
Yojo had provided to carry Queequeg and me round the Cape.  But I had not
Yojo in our little bedroom --for it seemed that it was some sort of Lent or
You see him?  well, spose him one whale eye, well, den!  and taking sharp
Your Krusensterns; but I say that scores of anonymous Captains have sailed
Zoology is so much involved as that which is entitled Cetology, says Captain
a Dutchman, all other ships long shunned those shores as pestiferously
a battery, would quickly recoil at the apparition of the sperm whale's vast
a common pitch pine leg he kicked with, was it?  No, you were kicked by a
a conscience to lug about that would be heavy enough to founder the largest
a member?  he then said, turning to me; not very long, I rather guess,
a plenty; and so in some small degree, with cetology, or the science of
a plum-pudding voyage, as they called it (that is, a short whaling-voyage in
a quoggy spot in him somewhere.  As a general rule, he can't amount to much in
a sailor who had visited that very island, and he told me that it was the
a schooner or brig, confined to the north of the line, in the Atlantic Ocean
a ship in which her beloved brother Bildad was concerned, and in which she
a very early start.
a word he spoke; nor did his officers say aught to him; though by all their
abounding dignity which has no robed investiture.  Thou shalt see it shining
about Captain Ahab, and how he was, and when he was going to come on board
about half an inch or so, into the plank.  His bone leg steadied in that hole;
about his losing his leg last voyage, according to the prophecy.  Didn't ye
about religion made much impression upon Queequeg.  Because, in the first
about that, eh?  Nothing about the silver calabash he spat into?  And nothing
about the first thing babies do, and that's a sort of queer, too.  Damn me,
about the value of a timber head, or a foot of plank, or a nail or two in the
about what whaling is; do ye yet feel inclined for it?  I do, sir.  Very
above a hundred yards, when chancing to turn a corner, and looking back as I
absolute dictator of it, so soon as the ship sailed out upon the open sea.
absolute!  The centre and circumference of all democracy!  His omnipresence,
accompanied by his boat-steerer or harpooneer, who in certain conjunctures
account kick back; for you can't help yourself, wise Stubb.  Don't you see
account of our Leviathan?  Who but mighty Job!  And who composed the first
account that man more honorable than that great captain of antiquity who
acquainted with, still I ascribed this --and rightly ascribed it --to the
acquiesce; and accordingly prepared to set about this business with a
active life.  Queequeg, said I, going up to him, Queequeg, what's the
activity aboard the pequod.  not only were the old sails being mended, but
adventure of their subsequent lives, strangely blend with these unoutgrown
afore breakfast?  He's cracked, Queequeg, said I, come on.  Holloa!
against all warrantry to
ago, when he lay like dead for three days and nights; nothing about that
aim at it, he darted the iron right over old Bildad's broad brim, clean across
ain't Captain Bildad; no, and he ain't Captain Peleg; he's Ahab, boy; and
alarmed by his energy, perhaps also a little touched at the hearty grief in
alarmed.  I had allowed him such abundant time; I thought he might have had
ale.  He must have been born in some time of general drought and famine, or
alike --for we are all somehow dreadfully cracked about the head, and sadly
alive.  He seemed to do most of the talking and commanding, and not Bildad.
all about whaling, I dare say --eh?  Nothing, Sir; but I have no doubt I
all describe, was not exactly awe; I do not know what it was.  But I felt
all his barbaric virtues, and erect as a giraffe, moved about the decks in
all invited guests.  He was as particular about the comfortable arrangement of
all kinds of vague wonderments and half-apprehensions, and all connected with
all other hunted whales, his is an unwritten life.  Now the various species of
all pass off.  And once for all, let me tell thee and assure thee, young man,
all right; not before.  What do you know about him?  What did they tell
all that's kind to our mortalities.  But in that gale, the port, the land, is
all the pomp of six feet five in his socks.  There was a corporeal humility
all the rest of the banded whalemen in the world; sail a navy of upwards of
all.  Any how, it's all fixed and arranged a'ready; and some sailors or
allusion was made to it, especially by the mates.  But once Tashtego's
almost, but a spare captain and duplicate ship.  At the period of our arrival
alone resides the highest truth, shoreless, indefinite as God --so, better is
already involved in the matter, he insensibly strives to cover up his
altogether cool and self-collected; right in the middle of the room;
ambition, all mortal greatness is but disease.  But, as yet we have not to
among the cleanliest things of this tidy earth.  But even granting the charge
among them all, shall at times lift himself to the exalted mounts; if I shall
an anchor in their waters.  The uncounted isles of all Polynesia confess the
an apoplectic fit.  I looked through the key-hole; but the door opening into
an enraged and mighty man.  But were the coming narrative to reveal, in any
an odd corner of the room, the key-hole prospect was but a crooked and
an offing, that the two pilots were needed no longer.  The stout sail-boat
an undigested apple-dumpling; and since then perpetuated through the
and Hosea Hussey had his account books bound in superior old shark-skin.
and again marking the sleeper, jocularly hinted to Queequeg that perhaps we
and also his pipe.  lighting the pipe at the binnacle lamp and planting the
and at intervals singing what seemed a dismal stave of psalmody, to cheer the
and better, and was expected aboard every day; meantime, the two Captains,
and board, for which I would not have to pay one stiver.  It might be thought
and calms of all four oceans, her old hull's complexion was darkened like a
and cocoanuts; and with some parsley in their mouths, were sent round with
and desiring him to make a settee of himself under a spreading tree, perhaps
and dressed; and Queequeg, taking a prodigiously hearty breakfast of chowders
and european men-of-war now peacefully ride in once savage harbors, let them
and every mother's son and soul of us belong; the great and everlasting
and eye levelled at the Pequod, the beggar-like stranger stood a moment, as if
and families....  Utter confusion exists among the historians of this animal
and he handles it about right.  I say, Quohog, or whatever your name is, did
and icebergs all astern, the Pequod now went rolling through the bright Quito
and least known parts of the earth.  She has explored seas and archipelagoes
and no possible mistake.  Queequeg! --Queequeg! --all still.  Something must
and pryed about the Devil-Dam; from her, hopped over to the Tit-bit; and,
and responsible owners of the ship, and feeling half a mind to give up all
and rituals must be over, I went up to his room and knocked at the door; but
and selecting one entitled The Latter Day Coming; or No Time to Lose, placed
and steering her well out to sea.  Indeed, as that was not at all his proper
and the Pequod was as good a ship as any --I thought the best -- and all this I
and the insertion into it, of the ivory heel.  Ah!  Stubb, thou did'st not
and the judgment then?  What?  With all three masts making such an everlasting
and the pequod.  devil- dam, i do not know the origin of; tit-bit is
and the voyage we had bound ourselves to sail; and a hundred other shadowy
and then concluded by roaring back into his wigwam.  During these days of
and then jump after it?  Answer, quick!  I am, sir, if it should be
and there may be a caster of state.  How they use the salt, precisely --who
and unhorse you with a split helmet every time.  The whale has no famous
and with that, Peleg hurried him over the side, and both dropt into the
angels, and beat his tambourine in glory; called a coward here, hailed a
annuitants; widows, fatherless children, and chancery wards; each owning
another time with a bunch of quills for the chief mate's desk, where he kept
antiquities, were added new and marvellous features, pertaining to the wild
any human thing supposed to be complete, must for that very reason infallibly
any other whale hunter.  Starbuck was no crusader after perils; in him
apoplexy! --and with these cries, she ran towards the kitchen, I following.
apparelled like any barbaric Ethiopian emperor, his neck heavy with pendants
appearance of the elderly man I saw; he was brown and brawny, like most old
are called serious things, and indeed deemed those selfsame serious things
are, that is true.  But butchers, also, and butchers of the bloodiest badge
arid summers had he seen; those summers had dried up all his physical
arm, and demanded his harpoon; she allowed no harpoon in her chambers.  Why
as a rather good sort of god, who perhaps meant well enough upon the whole,
as all my remonstrances produced no effect upon Queequeg, I was obliged to
as is sometimes the case in these ports, being held by a crowd of old
as the harpooneers were flingers of javelins.  And since in this famous
ashore or afloat, is terribly infected with the nameless miseries of the
at hand upon all mortally practical occasions.  Besides, he thought, perhaps,
at his frantic impudence.  At last, stepping on board the Pequod, we found
at last. --Down, dog, and kennel!  Starting at the unforeseen concluding
at the Island, the heaviest storage of the Pequod had been almost completed;
at the apparition of Captain Peleg in the act of withdrawing his leg from my
at the feet.  We kept the pipe passing over the sleeper, from one to the
at the men down the hatchways, roaring up to the riggers at the mast-head,
at times affected, and in some cases seemed well nigh to overbalance all the
attempt.  Those books are Beale's and Bennett's; both in their time surgeons
august dignity I treat of, is not the dignity of kings and robes, but that
author, and whaling no famous chronicler, you will say.  The whale no
authority, in order to propose myself as a candidate for the voyage, at
aware of that, said elijah, slowly and wonderingly looking from me to
away with thee, friend Starbuck, and do our bidding.  How now!  Here upon the
away, I was full of thoughtfulness; what had been incidentally revealed to
back and strike him, or --what's that? -- down here on my knees and pray for
barbarous; but the whale-ship touched there.  The whale-ship is the true
barnacled hulls of the leviathan; at the outset it is but well to attend to a
battering seas.  Now these three mates --Starbuck, Stubb, and Flask, were
battled with virgin wonders and terrors that Cooke with all his marines and
bay on his native coast.  And never having been anywhere in the world but in
be faulty.  I shall not pretend to a minute anatomical description of the
be found wanting in the Pequod, after once fairly getting to sea.  At one time
be seen actively engaged in looking over the bows for the approaching anchor,
became still less and less a recluse; as if, when the ship had sailed from
because that other person don't believe it also.  But when a man's religion
becomes really frantic; when it is a positive torment to him; and, in fine,
been a kind of moody --desperate moody, and savage sometimes; but that will
been so killed Starbuck well knew.  What doom was his own father's?  Where, in
before hinted, I have no objection to any person's religion, be it what it
before hinted, for some time there was a continual fetching and carrying on
before long!  laughed the stranger, with a solemnly derisive sort of laugh.
before sailed out of Nantucket, had never ere this laid eye upon wild Ahab.
before you, and at the same time, in the remotest degree succeed in the
before.  Poor Alabama boy!  On the grim Pequod's forecastle, ye shall ere
begone, or I'll clear the world of thee!  As he said this, Ahab advanced upon
being an incorrigible old hunks, and in his sea-going days, a bitter, hard
benevolent countenance
beside him.  As for the residue of the Pequod's company, be it said, that at
bestirred themselves; the mates were actively engaged; and several of the
better than nothing; and if we had a lucky voyage, might pretty nearly pay
between a living thump and a dead thump.  That's what makes a blow from the
beyond the swelling flood, Stand dressed in living green.  So to the Jews old
birth-mark on him from crown to sole.  So powerfully did the whole grim aspect
bless ye, and have ye in His holy keeping, men, murmured old Bildad, almost
board of divers odds and ends of things, both large and small.  Chief among
board the Pequod, particularly in getting under weigh; and Charity, his
boasted of taking as many walled towns.  And, as for me, if, by any
boat.  Ship and boat diverged; the cold, damp night breeze blew between; a
bodily blight.  It was merely the condensation of the man.  He was by no
bone of the sperm whale's jaw.  Aye, he was dismasted off Japan, said the
both ran, in starting on the voyage with such a devil for a pilot.  I was
bottom of the sea after them; to have one's hands among the unspeakable
bound to hell.  Flukes and flames!  Bildad, say that again to me, and start
break thy backbone!  why don't ye spring, i say, all of ye--spring!  Quohog!
brief, that if the captain have a family, or any absorbing concernment of
broad ends on the deck, a circle of these slabs laced together, mutually
broad shad-bellied waistcoat; from that becoming boat-header, chief-mate, and
broad-shouldered make.  But one thing, nevertheless, that made me a little
brother-in-law, and a spare bible for the steward -- after all this, the two
bulwarks, from thence into the bows of one of the whale-boats hanging to the
burn, as before so many shrines, to our glory!  But look at this matter in
burying himself.  Oh!  never thee mind about that, Bildad, said Peleg.  Has
business of whaling.  One way and another, it has begotten events so
business that for more than half a century she had followed.  Old Captain
business, but the pilot's; and as he was not yet completely recovered --so
but all things are queer, come to think of 'em.  But that's against my
but in all cases did not succeed in his benevolent designs.  Now, this plan of
but once more he came softly after us; and touching my shoulder again, said,
but what the stingy old Bildad might have a mighty deal to say about shipping
but with some cautiousness dropt it to its place, for fear of disturbing
by any means the largest of the whales.  Yet, owing to the long priority of
by that, Captain Peleg?  said I, now jumping on the bulwarks, and leaving my
by what a grey Manxman insinuated, an old sepulchral man, who, having never
cabin to speak another farewell word there; again came on deck, and looked
cabin, and thrusting his hands far down into his pockets, -- hear him, all of
cabin.  But then, the idea was,
cabin.  seated on the transom was what seemed to me a most uncommon and
calculated to allay these colorless misgivings, and induce confidence and
cane.  Yes," thinks I,"it was only a playful cudgelling --in fact, only a
captain makes himself visible by arriving to take command; for sometimes these
captain, and finally a ship-owner; Bildad, as I hinted before, had concluded
captains, Peleg and Bildad, issued from the cabin, and turning to the chief
carved buckler or bedstead.  She was
castaways, I shall hereafter ascribe high qualities, though dark; weave round
castors, and scolding her little black boy meantime.  Wood-house!  cried I,
causes the muscles about the eyes to become pursed together.  Such
cave in; hence the spirit caves in; and all thoughts born of a fast must
celebrate as they will the heroes of Exploring Expeditions, your Cookes,
certainly have brought his Ramadan to a termination.  But no; there he was
chance; and in that vessel I must immediately ship myself, for the present
chapters to, these men accounted unworthy of being set down in the ship's
character seem gone; bleeds with keenest anguish at the undraped spectacle
charity did this charitable Aunt Charity bustle about hither and thither,
cheek bones, and black rounding eyes --for an Indian, Oriental in their
cheerfulness in every presentment of the voyage.  Three better, more likely
cherish such emotions.  For though the harpooneers, with the great body of
chest, and drawing forth the ship's articles, placed pen and ink before him,
chief mate, had selected for his squire.  But Queequeg is already known.  Next
chief mate, that; good man, and a pious; but all alive now, I must turn
child: hold ye then there can be any utter, hopeless harm in Ahab?  No, no,
chimney hag.  seeing he wasn't going to stop saying over his "wise Stubb, wise
chowder for dinner, and chowder for supper, till you began to look for
christians should be charitable in these things, and not fancy ourselves so
classification of the constituents of a chaos, nothing less is here essayed.
claw-footed look about her.  Long seasoned and weather-stained in the typhoons
close vicinity of the flying harpoon, had retreated towards the cabin gangway.
close.  Captain Peleg seldom or never went ashore, but sat in his wigwam
clothes all rumpled and tumbled, and the sheets down at the foot, and the
clout --what do you think, I saw? --why thunder alive, man, his stern was stuck
coal-black
coast, were the most conspicuous object in the cymballed procession.  Grant
come to beg truce of a fortress.  Curious to tell, this imperial negro,
come to me that this ivory leg had at sea been fashioned from the polished
comfort, and consolation to all on board
comforting myself, however, with the thought that in pious Bildad might be
common log.  Ah, the world!  Oh, the world!  Until the whale fishery rounded
communion with any christian church?  Why, said I, he's a member of the
comparable to the unspeakable carrion of those battle-fields from which so
compassion, as though he thought it a great pity that such a sensible young
completely stifle her upbraidings against the permitting stars.  But this
comprehensible terrors of man compared with the interlinked terrors and
comprising her beef, bread, water, fuel, and iron hoops and staves.  But, as
comrade standing on the wharf.  I mean, he replied, he must show his
concealed in this queer tenement, I at length found one who by his aspect
concerned in, for he never piloted any other craft --Bildad, I say, might now
concerning him.  And somehow, at the time, I felt a sympathy and a sorrow for
conflict with seas, or winds, or whales, or any of the ordinary irrational
connected with it, then am I ready to shiver fifty lances with you there,
consider the duty thou owest to the other owners of this ship-- widows and
considered from his own point of view; and, in the second place, he did not
consistency about worthy Captain Bildad.  Though refusing, from conscientious
conspire to cast her on the treacherous, slavish shore?  But as in landlessness
constrained; especially, as in all probability he had been sitting so for
content; and there let him rest.  All our arguing with him would not avail;
continent of men, but each Isolato living on a separate continent of his
convenient on an excursion; much better than those garden-chairs which are
convertible into walking-sticks; upon occasion, a chief calling his attendant,
coronation, even as a head of salad.  Can it be, though, that they anoint it
corrupt, but lay--" Lay, indeed, thought I, and such a lay!  the seven
corrupt.  It was an exceedingly long lay that, indeed; and though from the
cosmopolite philosopher cannot, for his life, point out one single peaceful
could certainly say.  By some tacit consent, throughout the voyage little or no
could, nevertheless, still flourish, must indeed have been extreme.  But it
countenance.  What's the matter with you, young man?  Get the axe!  For
country way; won't hurt him face.  Face!  said I, call that his face?  very
courage up.  And brave as he might be, it was that sort of bravery chiefly,
courage was not a sentiment; but a thing simply useful to him, and always
coverlid almost tied into knots, and the pillow a sort of frightful hot, as
craft in your day, for aught I know; --squared-toed luggers; mountainous
crawl to land!  Terrors of the terrible!  is all this agony so vain?  Take
creature, that over any ignominious blemish in him all his fellows should run
crew sprang for the handspikes.  Now, in getting under weigh, the station
crew.  We are part owners and agents.  But as I was going to say, if thou
crews from the hardy peasants of those rocky shores.  In like manner, the
cried Bildad, is this Philistine a regular member of Deacon Deuteronomy's
cried Peleg, Thou dost not want to swindle this young man!  he must have
cried Peleg.  Pious harpooneers never make good voyagers --it takes the shark
cried stationary Elijah, hailing us when we had removed a few paces.  Never
crippled way.  Some considerating touch of humanity was in him; for at times
crisis of the chase, toiling away, calm and collected as a journeyman joiner
cursed pyramid -- so confoundedly contradictory was it all, all the while, I
custom of fattening some of the lower orders for ottomans; and to furnish a
custom, when a great battle had been gained there, to barbecue all the slain
dad whale dead.  Quick, Bildad, said Peleg, his partner, who, aghast at the
damaged in the head.  But if you are speaking of Captain Ahab, of that ship
dangerous voyage, could so unrestingly push off again for still another
dangerous weepons in their rooms at night.  So, Mr. Queequeg (for she had
day, with a long oil-ladle in one hand, and a still longer whaling lance in
day; how it was I never could find out, for, though I applied myself to it
days, will satisfy you that the Greenland whale, without one rival, was to
deadly skrimmage with the Spaniard afore the altar in Santa? -- heard nothing
death into an easy chair.  What he thought of death itself, there is no
decided that this was the very ship for us.  You may have seen many a quaint
deck sentinelled the slumbers of the band below; and when if a rope was to be
deck, and pretty close to the mizen shrouds, there was an auger hole, bored
deck.  As the sky grew less gloomy; indeed, began to grow a little genial, he
decks were worn and wrinkled, like the pilgrim-worshipped flag-stone in
deemed almost superfluous to establish the fact, that among people at large,
deep; but soon we shall be lost in its unshored, harborless immensities.  Ere
determined rushing sort of energy and vigor, that should quickly settle that
determined to go to bed and to sleep; and no doubt, before a great while, he
did he put forth the faint blossom of a look, which, in any other man, would
did so, who should be seen but Elijah following us, though at a distance.
did," says I --"right here it was." "Very good," says he --"he used his ivory
did; how could ye?  Who knows it?  Not all Nantucket, I guess.  But
directions from Mrs. Hussey concerning the nearest way to bed; but, as
distrustful about receiving a generous share of the profits was this: Ashore,
divided into wrought nails and cut nails; so mankind may be similarly divided.
do well in all climates.  Looking into his eyes, you seemed to see there the
do with such an one, but with quite another; and still a man, who, if indeed
do, said Bildad, eyeing me, and then went on spelling away at his book in a
do; for I knew the inferences without his further hinting them.  I had seen
does she sail?  Aye, aye, ye are going in her, be ye?  She sails to-day.
dog, sir.  Then be called ten times a donkey, and a mule, and an ass, and
don't believe it's very punctual then.  I went down to supper.  After sitting a
don't take to be the fact.  Good again.  Now then, thou not only wantest to
don't think thou wilt be able to at present.  I don't know exactly what's the
done a good morning's work, and that the Pequod was the identical ship that
door --the axe! --the axe!  he's had a stroke; depend upon it! --and so saying I
doubloons; and so I thought at the time.  Why, blast your eyes, Bildad,
doubt, like a good sailor, he took it to be a sort of call of the watch to
down our traps, resolving, however, to sleep ashore till the last.  But it
downwards and inclosed in his folded arms.  The profoundest slumber slept
drab-colored eye intently looking at you, made you feel completely nervous,
dreams would have been of the crunching teeth of sharks.  But once, the mood
duty by thee; I am part owner of this ship, and feel concerned for the souls
each other at the watches, and for aught that could be seen to the contrary,
each other's fashion, upon this ragged old sailor; and agreed that he was
earnest man, and though born on an icy coast, seemed well adapted to endure
earnest thinking is but the intrepid effort of the soul to keep the open
earnestly enjoined that the selection of the ship should rest wholly with me,
earnestness of his manner.  Captain Ahab.  What!  the captain of our ship,
easy!  He was going on with some wild reminiscences about his tomahawk-pipe,
eaten that very evening.  No more, Queequeg, said I, shuddering; that will
either.  Mr Starbuck, mind that cooper don't waste the spare staves.  Oh!  the
elemental strife at sea.  Yet, this wild hint seemed inferentially negatived,
elephant, vast curving icicles depended from the bows.  Lank Bildad, as pilot,
employed in the American whale fishery, are Americans born, though pretty
emulation of the naval officers he should append the initials S. W.  F. (Sperm
engaged for the year.  Good-humored, easy, and careless, he presided over his
engaged therein, we are surrounded by all manner of defilements.  Butchers we
engineering forces employed in the construction of the American Canals and
enlightened world by the whaleman.  After its first blunder-born discovery by
enough; and then, without more ado, sat quietly down there.  Gracious!
enough; especially as in the merchant service many captains never show
enough; thou art shipped.  Yes, but I should like to see him.  But I
entertaining the most absurd notions about Yojo and his Ramadan; --but what of
equipped.  Every one knows what a multitude of things --beds, sauce-pans,
ere long the old man would emerge, griping at the iron banister, to help his
especially as Peleg, his friend and old shipmate, seemed such a blusterer.
estimation of the encountered peril, but that an utterly fearless man is a
eternal August of the Tropic.  The warmly cool, clear, ringing, perfumed,
eventuated the liberation of Peru, Chili, and Bolivia from the yoke of Old
ever deserve any real repute in that small but high hushed world which I might
every fresh arrival, down went his mark opposite that article upon the paper.
everything in profound quiet, not a soul moving.  The cabin entrance was
everyway, that instead of our going together among the whaling-fleet in
exasperated monster.  Long usage had, for this Stubb, converted the jaws of
except in port; and on board the Pequod, for thirty years, the order to
exclamation of the so suddenly scornful old man, Stubb was speechless a
experiences and remembrances as he had; it was not in nature that these
expressing the idea very plainly, so that he could take it in.  He said no;
eye that almost startled me.  Look ye, lad; never say that on board the
eye-wrinkles are very effectual in a scowl.  Is this the Captain of the
face; in all the nameless regal overbearing dignity of some mighty woe.  Ere
facts, an advocate who should wholly suppress a not unreasonable
far more dangerous comrade than a coward.
far-away domestic memories of his young Cape wife and child, tend to bend him
far-off unseen Eastern Continents; looked towards the land, looked aloft;
farthing is a good deal less than seven hundred and seventy-seven gold
fashion, to swim off into the air.  I snored; rolled over; and there I was
father the king, on the gaining of a great battle wherein fifty of the enemy
fear, I beseech thee, remain not for aye a Belial bondsman.  Spurn the idol
fearfulness upon the man, who in mid-winter just landed from a four years'
fellow who anoints his hair, and palpably smells of that anointing.  In truth,
fellows, and lay them round in the piers and alcoves.  Besides, it was very
felt like pushing him over, so as to change his position, for it was almost
ferocity in that particular whale, though indeed I might have inferred as
few moments I hardly noted that not a little of this overbearing grimness was
fierce uniqueness of the very nature of that wild Scandinavian vocation in
fights 'gainst the very winds that fain would blow her homeward; seeks all
final dismissal of the ship's riggers, and after the Pequod had been hauled
finally, going on board the Pequod, looked around her for a moment, and then
finally, he no doubt thought he knew a good deal more about the true religion
fire salutes to the honor and glory of the whale-ship, which originally showed
firmest fortitude, a determinate unsurrenderable
first Congregational Church.  Here be it said, that many tattooed savages
first I saw nobody; but I could not well overlook a strange sort of tent, or
first glimpse of sun entered the window, up he got, with stiff and grating
fish for the fun of it; and a three years' voyage round Cape Horn was only a
fish-bones coming through your clothes.  The area before the house was paved
fishermen's boats, I saw Hosea's brindled cow feeding on fish remnants, and
fishery as with the American army and military and merchant navies, and the
fishery, each mate or headsman, like a Gothic Knight of old, is always
fit; and closely wrapped up in it, and embalmed with inner health and
fit; and the silver calabash; and what Captain Peleg had said of him, when
fleets?  Why did Louis XVI.  of France, at his own personal expense, fit out
flesh, no superfluous beard, his chin having a soft, economical nap to it,
flukes!  man, what makes thee want to go a whaling, eh? --it looks a little
follow.  It is some systematized exhibition of the whale in his broad genera,
foolish, ignorant whim of his crazy, widowed mother, who died when he was
fools, and murderers there may be; men may have mean and meagre faces; but
footmanism quite unprecedented in other planets, bow down before the torso
for all his philosophy, there was a tear twinkling in his eye, when the
for almost all the tapers, lamps, and candles that burn round the globe,
for him --the likes of ye.  Morning to ye, shipmates, morning!  Oh, when ye get
for long ages to come, and to endure always, as now; for be it Polar snow or
for one, shall not lay up many lays here below, where moth and rust do
for the clothing I would wear out on it, not to speak of my three years' beef
for the missionary and the merchant, and in many cases carried the primitive
for the pots there were always boiling chowders.  Chowder for breakfast, and
for the three hundredth lay.  Captain Peleg, said I, I have a friend with
for, till one morning happening to take a stroll along the beach among some
fortunes, and am quite content if the world is ready to board and lodge me,
found some salvation, spite of his seven hundred and seventy-seventh lay;
found, and they were every one of them Americans; a Nantucketer, a
foundations, ribs, and very pelvis of the world; this is a fearful thing.
freely, while imperturbable Bildad kept leading off with his psalmody.  Thinks
friends, before they quit the ship for good with the pilot.  But there was
frightened about his plaguy soul, that he shrinked and sheered away from
from behind Peleg's, out of the wigwam.  He must show that he's converted.
from him, with the fixed bayonet of his pointed finger darted full at the
from starvation by the benevolent biscuit of the whale-ship luckily dropping
from the cabin with orders so sudden and peremptory, that after all it was
from the fish.  But of my own knowledge, I know that down to the year
from, the cabin to the planks.  It feels like going down into one's tomb,
frost this morning, ain't it?  Good bye to ye.  Shan't see ye again very
full of marlinspikes, with the points out.  Says I, on second thoughts,"I
fullest of trouble.  What business have I with this pipe?  This thing that is
further to those latent influences which, in some honest-hearted men,
gave her to understand the whole case.  Unconsciously clapping the
generally occupied by the pilot is the forward part of the ship.  And here
generic name of Gay-Headers.  Tashtego's long, lean, sable hair, his high
get up and have some supper.  You'll starve; you'll kill yourself,
ghost!  What's that noise there?  You, young man, avast there!  And running
gifts.  Have an eye to the molasses tierce, Mr. Stubb; it was a little leaky,
give this young man?
gives an order.  Step and growl; growl and go --that's the word with Captain
glistened in the moonlight; and like the white ivory tusks of some huge
go a-whaling, to find out by experience what whaling is, but ye also want to
go in order to see the world?  Was not that what ye said?  I thought so.  Well
go round Cape Horn to see any more of it, eh?  Can't ye see the world where
going it with a high hand on the quarter-deck, just as if they were to be
good man --not a pious, good man, like Bildad, but a swearing good man
good-bye to a thing so every way brimful of every interest to him, --poor old
good-bye to thee --and wrong not Captain Ahab, because he happens to have a
good-humor of his; that thing must have been his pipe.  For, like his nose,
good.  Now, art thou the man to pitch a harpoon down a live whale's throat,
gore.  How now in the contemplative evening of his days, the pious Bildad
grave; where such as ye sleep between shrouds, to use ye to the filling one
great America on the other side of the sphere, Australia, was given to the
great are made so through a certain morbidness.  Be sure of this, O young
great glory to be slapped by a queen, and made garter-knights of; but, be
great man, and with a beautiful ivory leg, Stubb.  It's an honor; I consider
greatest joke of the dream, Flask.  While I was battering away at the
greatly fear lest thy conscience be but a leaky one; and will in the end
greybeards will oftenest leave their berths to visit the night-cloaked deck.
grocers, costermongers, doctors, bakers, and bankers.  And though this also
grooves out the bark from top to bottom, ere running off into the soil,
ground with their packs; what helped to bring about that almost impious
guess I won't kick you, old fellow." "Wise Stubb," said he,"wise Stubb;" and
gun --a straight wake with ye!  As he thundered out this he made a rush at
had been killed by about two o'clock in the afternoon, and all cooked and
had best sit up with the body; telling him to establish himself accordingly.
had not only been originally educated according to the strictest sect of
had nothing but his ordinary round jacket on.  For some time, do all I would,
had only just lifted my foot for it, when he roared out, "Stop that kicking!"
hair and horns on.  Out of the cabin, ye canting, drab-colored son of a wooden
hairs, and continuing right down one side of his tawny scorched face and neck,
half-crazy conceits on these subjects.  There was Queequeg, now, certainly
half-revealing, shrouded sort of talk, now begat in me
hand free; look here; are you talking about prying open any of my doors?
hand, Flask, fifty times more savage to bear than a blow from a cane.  The
hands at the windlass, who roared forth some sort of a chorus about the girls
hands, especially as I now found him on board the Pequod, quite at home there
hands, including the captain, received certain shares of the profits called
hands.  Turning back I accosted Captain Peleg, inquiring where Captain Ahab
harbor, and in concert selecting our craft; instead of this, I say, Yojo
hard pushed, I replied.  I mean, sir, the same ancient Catholic Church to
hard work out of them.  When Bildad was a chief-mate, to have his
hard-hearted to say the least.  He never used to swear, though, at his men,
harpoon in his side; ever since then I allow no boarders to take sich
harpoon was missing.  He's killed himself, she cried.  It's unfort'nate
harpooneer and whaleman.  I mean Captain Scoresby.  On the separate subject of
has to do with aught that looks like death.  among sea-commanders, the old
hauled upon the forecastle, the sailors flung it not rudely down, as by day,
have I been unconsciously toiling, not pleasuring, --aye, and ignorantly
have a hot supper smoking for ye in old Nantucket.  Hurrah and away!  God
have been all Martial Commanders whom the world invariably delights to honor.
have been surprised had I been offered the 200th, considering I was of a
have been.  Why did the Dutch in DeWitt's time have admirals of their whaling
have happened.  Apoplexy!  I tried to burst open the door; but it stubbornly
have soon flowered out in a smile.
have the fear of death; how, then, can'st thou prate in this ungodly guise.
have the heart to write it; for it is a thing most sorrowful, nay shocking,
have thought myself to have been optically deceived in that matter, were it
have ye?  Who's Old Thunder?  said I, again riveted with the insane
haven't seen it since I put it there.  Running to a little closet under the
having now led for many years the bold life of the fishery in the ships of
he being in other things such an extremely sensible and sagacious savage, it
he could be well likened to the short, square timber known by that name in
he ever did chance to cast his mind that way after a comfortable dinner, no
he ever whaled it any?  turning to me.  Killed more whales than I can count,
he had, there seemed no more left in him, and he, too, sat down like a lamb,
he not be blameworthy?  It is well known that at the coronation of kings and
he sat; and all he could do --for all my polite arts and blandishments --he
he soliloquized at last, withdrawing the tube, this smoking no longer
he'll twitch you off soon.  I wonder he don't wake.  Queequeg removed himself
he;"let's argue the insult.  Captain Ahab kicked ye, didn't he?" "Yes, he
head?  What's that stultifying saying about chowder-headed people?  But look,
headed the first watch, and ever and anon, as the old craft deep dived into
headsman each of them belonged.  first of all was queequeg, whom Starbuck, the
heaped up --flaked up, with rose-water snow.  The starred and stately nights
hear a word about them matters and something more, eh?  No, I don't think ye
heart to undervalue even a congregation of ants worshipping a toad-stool; or
heart, take heart, O Bulkington!  Bear thee grimly, demigod!  Up from the spray
heathenish sharked waters, and by the beaches of unrecorded, javelin islands,
heavens attest.  Cetus is a constellation in the South!  No more!  Drive down
heavy-hearted cheers, and blindly plunged like fate into the lone Atlantic.
heightened at times by the ragged Elijah's diabolical incoherences uninvitedly
her harbor, for a space we had biting Polar weather, though all the time
her three masts overboard in that typhoon on Japan, that same voyage when
here at the north, been led to think untraditionally and independently;
hereditary dyspepsias nurtured by Ramadans.
hereditary foe.  The helmsman who steered by that tiller in a tempest, felt
hero there!
herself owned a score or two of well-saved dollars.  But it was startling to
high time to take that individual aside and argue the point with him.  And
high, broad form, seemed made of solid bronze, and shaped in an unalterable
high;  consisting of the long, huge slabs of limber black bone taken from
him with such overbearing terrors in his aspect, that Stubb involuntarily
him, but for I don't know what, unless it was the cruel loss of his leg.  And
him?  Yes, that was the thought coming up in me; but it would be the first
his Ramadan, we sallied out to board the Pequod, sauntering along, and
his adventurous career by wholly retiring from active life at the goodly age
his being behind, but passed on with my comrade, anxious to see whether the
his bleeding stump that brought that about, as any one might see.  I know,
his book, Lay not up for yourselves treasures upon earth, where moth--
his claims, and the profound ignorance which, till some seventy years back,
his concluding exclamation, but said as calmly as I could, What you say is
his drab vesture was buttoned up to his chin; and spectacles on nose, he
his ears were two golden hoops, so large that the sailors called them
his face, and left it like the complicated ribbed bed of a torrent, when the
his face, as much as to say, Nevertheless, friend Peleg, I can stand it;
his forehead again against mine; and said his Ramadan was over.  Now, as I
his hardy sobriety and fortitude, there were certain qualities in him which
his leg.
his log; a third time with a roll of flannel for the small of some one's
his made him a little waggish in the matter of whales; he followed these
his merits, were he presented to the company as a harpooneer, say; and if in
his part of the boat, as an old stage-driver is about the snugness of his box.
his quarter-deck.  There seemed no sign of common bodily illness about him,
his sacrificial fire of shavings, I sallied out among the shipping.  After
his ship.  To these questions they would answer, that he was getting better
his short, black little pipe was one of the regular features of his face.  You
his stern to me, bent over, and dragging up a lot of seaweed he had for a
his utilitarian character.  On his long, gaunt body, he carried no spare
his vest.  Still, for all this immutableness, was there some lack of common
his wearied mates, seeking repose within six inches of his ivory heel, such
holds true of merchant vessels, yet not by any means to the same extent as
hollow tone, and turning round to me.  I dost, said I unconsciously, he was
home, nothing but the dead wintry bleakness of the sea had then kept him so
home, were mostly all carried ashore to the hospital, sore exhausted and worn
homewards, they drop them there again.  How it is, there is no telling, but
horrors of the world, yet cannot withstand those more terrific, because more
hot latitudes, his flesh being hard as twice-baked biscuit.  Transported to
house comfortably in that respect, you had only to buy up eight or ten lazy
howled, and the cordage rang, his steady notes were heard, -- Sweet fields
hows'ever, mayhap, ye've heard tell about the leg, and how he lost it; aye,
huge pockets of his broad-skirted drab coat, took out a bundle of tracts,
humorously or in earnest.  But concentrating all his crow's feet into one
humorousness, hinted that if Captain Ahab was pleased to walk the planks,
hundred and seventy-seventh!  Well, old Bildad, you are determined that I,
hundredth lay, I say.  Bildad laid down his book, and turning solemnly
hunted in the wake of the great whales of the sea; the unerring harpoon of
i can't tell; but as thou art still an impenitent man, captain Peleg, I
idea of peril so much enhances the popular conceit of the soldier's
idea of sailing in a vessel so questionably owned and temporarily commanded,
idleness perished from before him.  His own person was the exact embodiment of
if either by birth or other circumstances, he have what seems a half wilful
ignorance to this present day still reigns in all but some few scientific
ignorance.  Outward portents and inward presentiments were his.  And if at
immediate vicinity.  That was my first kick.  Is that the way they heave in
impenitent Peleg and his ways.  As for Peleg, after letting off his rage as
imperfect misty dawn, when we drew nigh the wharf.  There are some sailors
important to tell us, out with it; but if you are only trying to bamboozle
imposing way.  The whale never figured in any grand imposing way?  In
impossibility of replacing them at the remote harbors usually frequented, it
in Booble Alley, with hearty good will.  Nevertheless, not three days
in Parliament?  Who, but Edmund Burke!  True enough, but then whalemen
in a man of greatly superior natural force, with a globular brain and a
in a troubled reverie; then starting a little, turned and said: -- Ye've
in colleges, as well as 'mong the cannibals; been used to deeper wonders than
in faded jacket and patched trowsers; a rag of a black handkerchief
in for safe keeping.  La!  La, ma'am! --Mistress!  murder!  Mrs. Hussey!
in great wooden trenchers, and garnished round like a pilau, with breadfruit
in ice, as in polished armor.  The long rows of teeth on the bulwarks
in looking up at him; and a white man standing before him seemed a white flag
in my desk, then here I prospectively ascribe all the honor and the glory to
in my hammock!  Now, what do you think of that dream, Flask?  I don't know;
in question to be true; what disordered slippery decks of a whale-ship are
in quick and constant puffs, which blew back again into his face.  How now,
in short, everything betokened that the ship's preparations were hurrying to a
in some damp marshy place.  While narrating these things, every time Queequeg
in the arm that wields a pick or drives a spike; that democratic dignity
in the cabin, and reading his Bible as if at his own fireside.  Now while
in the old South Sea Voyages, those things were but the lifetime commonplaces
in the other, having just broken away from the occupation of attending to the
in the yard or garden of the victor; and then, one by one, they were placed
in this business of whaling; and as this business of whaling has somehow come
in which some thousands of his hard earned dollars were invested; a ship, in
inasmuch as Yojo purposed befriending us; and, in order to do so, had already
incline him to superstition; but to that sort of superstition, which in some
incoherently.  I hope ye'll have fine weather now, so that Captain Ahab may
incomplete indications but serve to torture us naturalists.  Thus speak of
indeed?
independence of her sea; while the wildest winds of heaven and earth
indispensable to the business of housekeeping.  Just so with whaling, which
individual circumstances.  Like Captain Peleg, Captain Bildad was a well-to-do,
infallibly light upon, for all the world as though it had turned out by
influence, which within the last sixty years has operated more potentially
injustice hereby done to us hunters of whales.  In the first place, it may be
inserted in it, served to brace the ship against the icy concussions of those
instance, the complete abasement of poor Starbuck's fortitude, scarce might I
instant the ship shot by the bubble the sinking pipe made.  With slouched hat,
instead of a fore-mast hand; I never heard a better sermon.  Deacon
insulated Quakerish Nantucketer, was full of his insular prejudices, and
insult me.  It's an all-fired outrage to tell any human creature that he's
interlacing round his eyes, which must have arisen from his continual
interposed the mustard-pot and vinegar-cruet, and the entire castor of her
into the cold malicious waves, who should I see
into the inquiry as to the true method of dividing the cetacea into groups
intolerable, it seemed so painfully and unnaturally
invaded the Atlantic and Pacific; and though a sworn foe to human bloodshed,
invested the then fabulous and utterly unknown sperm-whale, and which
invested this old Manxman with preternatural powers of discernment.  So that
investing his neck.  A confluent small-pox had in all directions flowed over
irrespective of Queequeg.  I have forgotten to mention that, in many things,
is a pretty large number, yet, when you come to make a teenth of it, you
is ever to become hospitable, it is the whale-ship alone to whom the credit
is getting better, and will be all right again before long.  All right again
is my twelfth -- So here goes again.  But how's that?  didn't he call me a dog?
is no telling how many things to be thought of, before the Pequod was fully
isles of the sea, and all the ends of the earth, accompanying Old Ahab in the
issues, that whaling may well be regarded as that Egyptian mother, who bore
it an honor.  Listen, wise Stubb.  In old England the greatest lords think it
it fared with him as with the storm-tossed ship, that miserably drives along
it in queequeg's hands, and then grasping them and the book with both his,
it seems a sort of foolish to me, tho'.  May be, may be.  But it's made a
it to perish in that howling infinite, than be ingloriously dashed upon the
it would have washed some of that devil's blue off his face.  Do tell, now,
it, since you cite it; but, say what you will, there is no real dignity in
it; and it did not disincline me towards him; though I felt impatience at
its intolerable weather behind us.  It was one of those less lowering, but
jacket, and threw it over him, as it promised to be a very cold night; and he
jacket, there was yet, it then seemed to me, many a pleasant haven in
joint-commanders at sea, as well as to all appearances in port.  And, as for
joints, but with a cheerful look; limped towards me where I lay; pressed
jolly joke that lasted that length of time.  As a carpenter's nails are
just so I now did with Queequeg.  Queequeg, said I, get into bed now, and
just where I had left him; he had not stirred an inch.  I began to grow
keep me from catching it.  He's full of riddles; I wonder what he goes into
keeping a sharp look-out upon the hands: Bildad did all the purchasing and
kept muttering it all the time, a sort of eating of his own gums like a
kick?"  By the lord, Flask, I had no sooner said that, than he turned round
kindhearted, who seemed resolved that, if she could help it, nothing should
knew nothing and says nothing of the great sperm whale, compared with which
knives and forks, shovels and tongs, napkins, nut-crackers, and what not, are
know Ahab then.  Am I a cannon-ball, Stubb, said Ahab, that thou wouldst
know a man that, in his lifetime, has taken three hundred and fifty whales.  I
know, and I don't much care; for it seems to me that you must be a little
knowledge of the cetacea.  A field strewn with thorns.  All these
knows?  Certain I am, however, that a king's head is solemnly oiled at his
lance!  aye, the keenest and the surest that out of all our isle!  Oh!  he
land wood, but deftly travelled over sheaves of sea-ivory.  Scorning a
land, though it but graze the keel, would make her shudder through and
landing of the stairs, she glanced in, and returning, told me that Queequeg's
landlady.  But all we said, not a word could we drag out of him; I almost
lantern came too near.  And he, too, did not a little run from cabin to deck
largeness, but Antarctic in their glittering expression --all this
last for ever, thank God, and his Ramadan only comes once a year; and I
last sunny deck, he seemed as unnecessary there as another mast.  But the
last, he turned to his comrade, with a final sort of look about him, -- Captain
late, calling a sailor of the watch, he sent him below for his ivory stool,
latitude which we sailed, gradually leaving that merciless winter, and all
law, the whale is declared a royal fish.
layer were piled upon his brow, as ever all clouds choose the loftiest peaks
learned his name), I will just take this here iron, and keep it for you till
leaves her to the owners till all is ready for sea.  However, it is always as
leaving the tree still greenly alive, but branded.  Whether that mark was born
lee, even if that were safety!  For worm-like, then, oh!  who would craven
let him be, I say: and Heaven have mercy on us all --Presbyterians and Pagans
let's leave this crazy man.  But stop, tell me your name, will you?
letter-sorter in the Post-office is equal to it.  To grope down into the
liberal professions.  If a stranger were introduced into any miscellaneous
liberally provides the brains, the rest of the world as generously supplying
libraries and sailed through oceans; I have had to do with whales with these
lie and listen to me.  I then went on, beginning with the rise and progress
like him well enough; no fear, no fear.  he's a grand, ungodly, god-like
like mad, at something or other, never mind what.  Indolence and
like men going towards that ship a while ago?  Struck by this plain
like that plan at all.  I had not a little relied on Queequeg's sagacity to
like the Tartar, when he holds back his fiery steed by clutching its jaw.  A
like the worn nap of his broad-brimmed hat.  Such, then, was the person that I
like these, he usually abstained from patrolling the quarter-deck; because to
likewise, against all mortal tribulations, Stubb's tobacco smoke might have
little cabin-boy in short clothes of the drabbest drab, to a harpooneer in a
little out of his mind for a spell; but it was the sharp shooting pains in
little respond to the playful allurings of that girlish air.  More than once
little, in the uncertain twilight, strangely peering from Queequeg to me.  It
living member --that makes the living insult, my little man.  And thinks I to
living, and not to be killed by them for theirs; and that hundreds of men had
loading them again to be in readiness anew.  For, when Stubb dressed, instead
locked within; the hatches were all on, and lumbered with coils of rigging.
long line of Folgers and harpooneers --all kith and kin to noble Benjamin
long see him, beating his tambourine; prelusive of the eternal time, when
long sharp teeth of the sperm whale, inserted there for pins, to fasten her
long time listening to the long stories of some sailors who had just come from
long, from his first visit in the air, he withdrew into his cabin.  But after
long.  They called him King-Post on board of the Pequod; because, in form,
looked earnestly into his eyes, and said, Son of darkness, I must do my
looked right and left; looked everywhere and nowhere; and at last,
lungs are a sort of soft, d'ye see; thou dost not talk shark a bit.  Sure,
made a pilot in order to save the Nantucket pilot-fee to all the ships he was
magnitude of the figure it might at first deceive a landsman, yet the
main-mast.  Mr. Starbuck, drive 'em aft.  Strike the tent there! --was the
majestic bulk and mystic ways; and so dead to anything like an apprehension
makes one in a whole nation's census --a mighty pageant creature, formed for
makes this earth of ours an uncomfortable inn to lodge in; then I think it
man as you'll find anywhere in this fishery.  But we shall ere long see what
man should be so hopelessly lost to evangelical pagan piety.  At last we rose
man, Captain Ahab; doesn't speak much; but, when he does speak, then you may
man, Ishmael's thy name, didn't ye say?  Well then, down ye go here, Ishmael,
man, but I was frightened.  Such a phiz!  But, somehow, next moment I was over
man, in the ideal, is so noble and so sparkling, such a grand and glowing
mantle of humanity over all my kind!  Bear me out in it, thou great democratic
many of her most daring harpooneers.  In the fishery, they usually go by the
many soldiers return to drink in all ladies' plaudits?  And if the
marching along the sand with each foot in a cod's decapitated head, looking
marchings, ever cullest Thy selectest champions from the kingly commons; bear
mark?  But at this question, Queequeg, who had twice or thrice before taken
massive forefinger at the vessel in question.  He was but shabbily apparelled
mast without coming home for it.  he has a quiver of 'em.  I was struck with
mate, Peleg said: Now, Mr. Starbuck, are you sure everything is right?
matter almost indispensable to a thorough appreciative understanding of the
matter with him; but he keeps close inside the house; a sort of sick, and
matter with you, shipmate?  In as calm, but rapid a manner as possible, I
matter with you?  He hain't been a sittin' so all day, has he?  said the
matter-of-fact question, I answered, saying,
may tell thee the same.  I wish to warn thee.  It's a lie.  I know Captain
may, so long as that person does not kill or insult any other person,
me a sign, with --"no suicides permitted here, and no smoking in the parlor;"
me by the shoulders, and slews me round.  "What are you 'bout?" says he.  Slid!
me of Captain Ahab, filled me with a certain wild vagueness of painfulness
me out in it, O God!
me out in it, thou just spirit of equality, which hast spread one royal
me to understand that, in his land, owing to the absence of settees and sofas
me who wants to ship too --shall I bring him down to-morrow?  To be sure,
me?  I don't stand right on my legs.  Coming afoul of that old man has a sort
mean they know he's only one leg; and that a parmacetti took the other off.
means ill-looking; quite the contrary.  His pure tight skin was an excellent
meant for sereneness, to send up mild white vapors among mild white hairs,
mechanically coiling a rope upon its pin, convulsively grasped stout Peleg by
meeting?  I never saw him going there, and I pass it every Lord's day.
melancholy rapidity, that as I mounted to the deck at the call of the forenoon
memories like these in him, and, moreover, given to a certain
memory of their absent conquering Earls, the golden helmeted suns!  For
memory shot her crystals as the clear ice most forms of noiseless twilights.
men; but don't miss a fair chance either, that's rejecting Heaven's good
mere thought of Queequeg--
merely lend new spells and potencies to the outward world.  Inward they turned
metropolitan society, it would but slightly advance the general opinion of
might be ruminated here, concerning the essential dignity of this regal
might have been wasted.
mind him, said I, Queequeg, come on.  But he stole up to us again, and
minutest gestures and expressions, they plainly showed the uneasy, if not
missionaries to their first destinations.  If that double-bolted land, Japan,
moment; then said excitedly, I am not used to be spoken to that way, sir;
momentous men.  They it was who by universal prescription commanded three of
monstrousest parmacetty that ever chipped a boat! --ah, ah!  I was a little
more curious, Flask--you know how curious all dreams are-- through all this rage
more special leviathanic revelations and allusions of all sorts which are to
more starting to encounter all the terrors of the pitiless jaw; loath to say
more sweetly to me than then.  They were full of hope and fruition.  Spite of
more than one third understand me, couch my ideas simply as I would; and,
more than that.  Seven hundred and seventy-seventh, again said Bildad,
more till break of day; when, looking over the bedside, there squatted
morning.  But the chowder; clam or cod to-morrow for breakfast, men?  Both,
mother of that now mighty colony.  Moreover, in the infancy of the first
mother! --it will be the ruin of my house.  Has the poor lad a sister?  Where's
mould, like Cellini's cast Perseus.  Threading its way out from among his grey
much from the simple fact of the accident.  Look ye now, young man, thy
much prolonged sauntering and many random inquiries, I learnt that there
mumbling tone quite audible.  I thought him the queerest old Quaker I ever saw,
muskets would not willingly have dared.  All that is made such a flourish of
must be remembered, that of all ships, whaling vessels are the most exposed
must be the matter.  I went to make the bed after breakfast, and the door
muttered --then, whoever should do that last office for the dead, would find a
muttered Stubb, as he found himself descending the cabin-scuttle.
my astonishment, he sat down again on the transom very quietly, and seemed
my death, my executors, or more properly my creditors, find any precious MSS.
my lad; stricken, blasted, if he be, Ahab has his humanities!  As I walked
my little man, I kicked my leg right off!  And then, presto!  Ahab seemed a
my soul-bolts, but I'll--I'll--yes, I'll swallow a live goat with all his
myself all the while, mind, while I was stubbing my silly toes against that
narrative of a whaling-voyage?  Who, but no less a prince than Alfred the
native born Quaker one single jot, had not so much as altered one angle of
native island.  It must be so; yes, it's part of his creed, I suppose; 
nearly all the officers are.  Herein it is the same with the American whale
necessarily be half-starved.  This is the reason why most dyspeptic
necessarily small; but so far as it goes, it is of excellent quality,
necessitates a three-years' housekeeping upon the wide ocean, far from all
need mending.  Towards evening, when I felt assured that all his performances
need of profane words, however great the hurry, Peleg, said Bildad, but
negro-savage, with a lion-like tread --an Ahasuerus to behold.  Suspended from
nett proceeds of the voyage, whatever that might eventually amount to.  And
never speak to him, whatever he says.  Halloa!  what's that he shouts?  Hark!
new sails were coming on board, and bolts of canvas, and coils of rigging;
next day the ship would certainly sail.  So next morning, Queequeg and I took
next order.  As I hinted before, this whalebone marquee was never pitched
night in the same room with a wide awake pagan on his hams in this dreary,
night-watches in the remotest waters, and beneath constellations never seen
no answer.  I tried to open it, but it was fastened inside.  Queequeg, said
no doubt true enough, sir; but how could I know there was any peculiar
no small surprise, considering that he was such an interested party in these
no white sailor seriously contradicted him when he said that if ever Captain
noble craft, but somehow a most melancholy!  All noble things are touched
noble tragedies.  Nor will it at all detract from him, dramatically regarded,
noise on deck.  Halloa!  Starbuck's astir, said the rigger.  He's a lively
noise the door flew open, and the knob slamming against the wall, sent the
noise; hinting something indistinctly and hesitatingly about a globe of tow,
nor of the recovery from any.  He looked like a man cut away from the stake,
nose as without his pipe.
not among torn iron-grey locks like mine.  I'll smoke no more-- He tossed the
not be unreasonably ambitious of; if hereafter I shall do anything that,
not for Elijah's otherwise inexplicable question.  But I beat the thing down;
not four feet off --sitting there in that uneasy position, stark alone in
not much chance to think over the matter, for Captain Peleg was now all
not till he was full forty years old did Ahab become that way branded, and
not?  said I; every true whaleman sleeps with his harpoon --but why not?
nothing above hatches was seen of Captain Ahab.  The mates regularly relieved
nothing but a humbug, trying to be a bugbear.  But we had not gone perhaps
nothing, and tried to think nothing.  At last it was given out that some time
notice my presence in any the slightest way.  I wonder, thought I, if this can
now repeated to Peleg.  Seeing me so determined, he expressed his willingness
now, for the last thirty years, to my certain knowledge.  How far ye got,
now; and thus chase away, for that one interval, the clouds that layer upon
numberless mortals who have died exhaling it; and as in time of the cholera,
numerous articles peculiar to the prosecution of the fishery, and the
object here is simply to project the draught of a systematization of cetology.
object.  Yes, said I, we have just signed the articles.  Anything down
oblige my friend and me by withdrawing.  We are going to the Indian and Pacific
obvious; Pequod, you will no doubt remember, was the name of a celebrated
of Ahab affect me, and the livid brand which streaked it, that for the first
of Tisbury, in Martha's Vineyard.  A short, stout, ruddy young fellow, very
of a deceased landed proprietor merely on account of the inordinate
of a fifth wheel to a wagon.  What are you jabbering about, shipmate?  said
of a valor-ruined man.  Nor can piety itself, at such a shameful sight,
of all its crew; if thou still clingest to thy Pagan ways, which I sadly
of all sorts, so that the landlady should not make much profit by reason of
of all sorts, the king, chiefs, and great people generally, were in the
of any possible danger from encountering them; that in his poor opinion, the
of families from our own island of Nantucket?  Why did Britain between the
of finding it out before ye bind yourself to it, past backing out.  Clap eye
of first putting his legs into his trowsers, he put his pipe into his mouth.
of material and device, unmatched by anything except it be Thorkill-Hake's
of me imagine.  This circumstance, coupled with his ambiguous, half-hinting,
of oil is used at coronations?  Certainly it cannot be olive oil, nor macassar
of our heroic Nantucketers.  Often, adventures which Vancouver dedicates three
of polished ivory.  She was a thing of trophies.  A cannibal of a craft,
of shipping ye.  Well, sir, I want to see what whaling is.  I want to see
of sixty, and dedicating his remaining days to the quiet receiving of his
of something queer about that, eh?  a white whale--did ye mark that, man?  Look
of the marchant service to me again.  Marchant service indeed!  I suppose now
of the primitive religions, and coming down to the various religions of the
of the ship, like her beef and her bread, and not to be foolishly wasted.
of the tusks of the narwhale.  How could one look at Ahab then, seated on that
of them ever come back.  Black Little Pip --he never did --oh, no!  he went
of thy ocean-perishing --straight up, leaps thy apotheosis!
of turned me wrong side out.  By the Lord, I must have been dreaming, though
of wood on his head.  For heaven's sake, Queequeg, get up and shake yourself;
offspring themselves pregnant from her womb.  It would be a hopeless, endless
oil, nor castor oil, nor bear's oil, nor train oil, nor cod-liver oil.  What
old Gay-Head Indian once; but like his dismasted craft, he shipped another
old hempen thews and tendons to.  Those thews ran not through base blocks of
old lady of a most determined and indefatigable spirit, but withal very
on Captain Ahab, young man, and thou wilt find that he has only one leg.
on an old-fashioned oaken chair, wriggling all over with curious carving; and
on my handspike, and told Queequeg to do the same, thinking of the perils we
once; why, the end of it --the foot part --what a small sort of end it is;
one of the licensed pilots of the port --he being suspected to have got himself
one of the mighty triumphs given to a Roman general upon his entering the
only a twelvemonth old.  And yet the old squaw Tistig, at Gayhead, said that
only some of us cherish some queer crotchets noways touching the grand belief;
only there was a fine and almost microscopic net-work of the minutest wrinkles
only two books in being which at all pretend to put the living sperm whale
only upon one memorable occasion.  It was after a great feast given by his
only); after listening to these plum-puddingers till nearly eleven o'clock,
operated as a sort of disinfecting agent.  The third mate was Flask, a native
or elbowed in the assault; and moreover, as there generally subsists between
or taking away one particle from their compacted aged robustness.  His whole
organizations seems rather to spring, somehow, from intelligence than from
original matter touching the sperm whale to be found in their volumes is
orphans, many of them --and that if we too abundantly reward the labors of this
other chaps, abruptly said the stranger, placing a nervous emphasis upon the
other lights; weigh it in all sorts of scales; see what we whalemen are, and
other must go with him, I suppose; as well these as any other men, God pity
other.  Meanwhile, upon questioning him in his broken fashion, Queequeg gave
our divine equality!  If, then, to meanest mariners, and renegades and
ourselves almost broad upon the wintry ocean, whose freezing spray cased us
ourselves, so far within us, that it remains intact though all the outer
out from the wharf, and after the ever-thoughtful Charity had come off in a
out of 'em; no harpooneer is worth a straw who aint pretty sharkish.  There
out of Nantucket, that were as great, and greater than your Cooke and your
out when he obeyed the order, and not sooner.  What, perhaps, with other
out.  For a pious man, especially for a Quaker, he was certainly rather
outline one for the present, hereafter to be filled in all its departments by
over the bulwarks, took a good long look at Queequeg.  How long hath he been
over the weather bow, I perceived that the ship swinging to her anchor with
overflowing, redundant days, were as crystal goblets of Persian sherbet,
overruling morbidness at the bottom of his nature.  For all men tragically
owing to the barbaric white leg upon which he partly stood.  It had previously
own, and now a retired seaman, and one of the principal owners of the
own.  Yet now, federated along one keel, what a set these Isolatoes were!  An
owners uncommonly heedful of what manner of men they shipped; daggoo retained
pace he was measuring the ship from taffrail to mainmast, Stubb, the odd
pained me, very badly pained me, to see him now so deplorably foolish about
painful, consciousness of being under a troubled master-eye.  And not only
papers.  Yea, said Captain Bildad in his hollow voice, sticking his head
part in similar ceremonies, looked no ways abashed; but taking the offered
particular, perhaps, about the
pearl; Thou who didst clothe with doubly hammered leaves of finest gold, the
peculiar disposition; for every one knows that this earthly air, whether
peculiar, it only results again from another phase of the Quaker, modified by
peculiarities of the Quaker, only variously and anomalously modified by
peculiarities, a thousand bold dashes of character, not unworthy a
pen, copied upon the paper, in the proper place, an exact counterpart of a
pequod to lay the world's grievances before that bar from which not very many
peril; her only friend her bitterest foe!  Know ye, now, Bulkington?
perilous vicissitudes of the fishery.  I will have no man in my boat, said
persisting in fighting a fish that too much persisted in fighting him.  For,
person i met --the chambermaid.  la!  la!  she cried, i thought something
persuasiveness of the pleasant, holiday weather we came to, seemed gradually
pertaining to the respective duties of the ship's company.
picking our teeth with halibut bones.
pitched upon a vessel, which, if left to myself, I, Ishmael, should
pivot-hole, or seated upon an ivory stool he had; or heavily walking the
place, he somehow seemed dull of hearing on that important subject, unless
plain they but commanded vicariously.  Yes, their supreme lord and dictator
plaster to the ceiling; and there, good heavens!  there sat Queequeg,
plenty of them in the tropic voyage ye go.  Be careful in the hunt, ye mates.
point out the whaler best fitted to carry us and our fortunes securely.  But
ponderous heart; who has also by the stillness and seclusion of many long
positively indispensable to do so; not to be got rid of, that is; which I
possessions yet owned and rented in his name.  I say, we good Presbyterian
possibility, there be any as yet undiscovered prime thing in me; if I shall
possibly be a part of his Ramadan; do they fast on their hams that way in his
practical world quite another.  This world pays dividends.  Rising from a
pre-eminently presuming and ridiculous.  Doubtless one leading reason why the
preliminaries to settle.  first: the uncertain, unsettled condition of this
preparation, Queequeg and I often visited the craft, and as often I asked
present time, during which time I labored to show Queequeg that all these
prevail, habitually, the silent steersman would watch the cabin-scuttle; and
previous had taken from him, before our mounting to the chamber.  That's
previous, Bildad had told them that no profane songs would be allowed on
principles.  Think not, is my eleventh commandment; and sleep when you can,
proceeded far, when I began to bethink me that the captain with whom I was to
proceedings; Bildad never heeded us, but went on mumbling to himself out of
process, because in common life we esteem but meanly and contemptibly a
proclamation.  This is Charing Cross; hear ye!  good people all, --the
profession; let me assure ye that many a veteran who has freely marched up to
prospect was unlimited, but exceedingly monotonous and forbidding; not the
proud warrior hunters, who, in quest of the great New England moose, had
provides him with a fresh lance, when the former one has been badly twisted,
providing at the stores; and the men employed in the hold and on the rigging
provinces on the Pacific coast.  It was the whaleman who first broke through
pugnacious concerning whales, who somehow seemed to think that the great
pursuit; therefore, I am all anxiety to convince ye, ye landsmen, of the
putting them on very carefully, came out of the wigwam, and leaning stiffly
puzzled by this curious request, not knowing exactly how to take it, whether
pyramid, a sort of badger-haired old merman, with a hump on his back, takes
pyramid, and I, like a blazing fool, kept kicking at it.  But what was still
queens, even modern ones, a certain curious process of seasoning them for
queer dream, King-Post, I never had.  You know the old man's ivory leg, well
queer round figure which was tattooed upon his arm; so that through Captain
rainbow over his disastrous set of sun; then against all mortal critics bear
raised full three per cent.  within the year.  Don't forget your prayers,
rather distrustful of all aliens, unless they hailed from Cape Cod or the
rather wigwam, pitched a little behind the main-mast.  It seemed only a
reach of his hand; and, whenever he turned in, he smoked them all out in
ready to turn her hand and heart to anything that promised to yield safety,
really dogging us or not, and with that intent crossed the way with Queequeg,
received the tomahawk from me, he flourished the hatchet-side of it over the
receiving all nature's sweet or savage impressions fresh from her own virgin
reconciled these things in the reminiscence, I do not know; but it did not
recurring to me, with a subtle energy I could not have before conceived of.
red men, which has long supplied the neighboring island of Nantucket with
religionists cherish such melancholy notions about their hereafters.  In one
religious obligations, never mind how comical, and could not find it in my
remain over the cabin table, having a farewell merrymaking with their shore
remarkable in themselves, and so continuously momentous in their sequential
requiring only a little circumvention and some small application of time and
research in the unfathomable waters.  Impenetrable veil covering our
rest.  Uncommonly conscientious for a seaman, and endued with a deep natural
restrain the gush of dare-devil daring, so often evinced by others in the more
retired whaleman.  But unlike Captain Peleg --who cared not a rush for what
retreated.  I was never served so before without giving a hard blow for it,
retreats and whale-ports; this usurpation has been every way complete.
reverence, the wild watery loneliness of his life did therefore strongly
rheumatic back.  Never did any woman better deserve her name, which was
ring-bolts, and would talk of securing the top-sail halyards to them.  In his
ripped and swore astern in the most frightful manner.  I almost thought he
roared Peleg, starting up and clattering about the cabin.  Blast ye, Captain
row?  It's not a real leg, only a false leg."  And there's a mighty difference
ruggedest, most thunder-cloven old oak will at least send forth some few green
running ahead there, if I see right, said I to Queequeg, it can't be
running away from it to the southward; and by every degree and minute of
rushing waters have been dried up.  Have ye shipped in her?  he repeated.
sage and sensible conclusion that a man's religion is one thing, and this
said Bildad sternly, thou art skylarking with me --explain thyself, thou
said I, looking dubiously at the sleeper.  But it seemed that, when on the
said Queequeg, quietly hauling in the line, spos-ee him whale-e eye; why,
said Queequeg, shaking himself, go 'way!  Aint going aboard, then?  Yes,
said peleg.  fetch him along, and we'll look at him.  What lay does he
said quickly.  no matter though, i know many chaps that hav'n't got any,
said the landlady, quickly putting down the vinegar-cruet, so as to have one
said, drawing back his whole arm, and then rapidly shoving it straight out
sail for several days.  But no wonder; there was a good deal to be done, and
sail yet remained unseen by me; though, indeed, in many cases, a whale-ship
sail-makers who were mending a top-sail in the waist.  Now and then he
sail-needles are in the green locker!  Don't whale it too much a' Lord's days,
sailing in Nantucket ships at last come to be converted into the churches.
sailings in many hard gales, and always looking to windward; --for this
same truth, and do commercial homage to the whale-ship, that cleared the way
saw seated on the transom when I followed Captain Peleg down into the cabin.
say, I was thinking to myself, "what's his leg now, but a cane --a whalebone
says I; and let's have a couple of smoked herring by way of variety.
science of Cetology is in the very vestibule attested by the fact, that in
scoured, bow in hand, the aboriginal forests of the main.  But no longer
scowl, Captain Peleg started me on the errand.  Going forward and glancing
screaming gull flew overhead; the two hulls wildly rolled; we gave three
scruples, to bear arms against land invaders, yet himself had illimitably
sea-officers and men, each in his own different way, could not readily be
seamen, and heavily rolled up in blue pilot-cloth, cut in the Quaker style;
secluded.  And, by and by, it came to pass, that he was almost continually in
second mate, came up from below, and with a certain unassured, deprecating
seducing nights.  But all the witcheries of that unwaning weather did not
see that leg? --I'll take that leg away from thy stern, if ever thou talkest
see this excellent hearted Quakeress coming on board, as she did the last
seeing me, glanced again inquiringly towards Peleg.  He says he's our man,
seem to concern him much, and very probably he had long since come to the
seemed absorbed in reading from a ponderous volume.  Bildad, cried Captain
seemed haughty dames in jewelled velvets, nursing at home in lonely pride, the
seemed to have authority; and who, it being noon, and the ship's work
seemed to me, I pronounced him in my heart, a humbug.
seeming to notice us.  This relieved me; and once more, and finally as it
seems they always give very long notice in these cases, and the ship did not
seldom or never goes abroad without it, therefore he must be inside here,
senior, an old Gay-Head Indian among the crew, superstitiously asserted that
sent for, to the great quarter-deck on high, he was bid strike in with
settle with myself at what terms I would be willing to engage for the voyage.
seven hundred vessels; manned by eighteen thousand men; yearly consuming 00824,000,000 of dollars; the ships worth, at the time of sailing, 20,000,000
seventy-seventh wouldn't be too much, would it? -- "where moth and rust do
several times, I never could master his liturgies and XXXIX Articles --leaving
shadows; she's off by sunrise, I guess; come on!  Avast!  cried a voice,
shall soon learn.  I've been several voyages in the merchant service, and I
sharks and shad, alewives and herring, against Linnaeus's express edict, were
she turned it in the lock; but, alas!  Queequeg's supplemental bolt remained
she would come on board with a jar of pickles for the steward's pantry;
ship bound on so long and perilous a voyage --beyond both stormy Capes; a ship
ship of the old school, rather small if anything; with an old fashioned
ship that ever sailed round Cape Horn.  Captain Peleg, said Bildad
ship.  People in Nantucket invest their money in whaling vessels, the same
shipped, have ye?  Names down on the papers?  Well, well, what's signed, is
shivers ran over me.  Reality outran apprehension; Captain Ahab stood upon
shore people were busy in bringing various last things on board.  Meanwhile
shore, eh?  Well, call all hands, then.  Muster 'em aft here --blast 'em!  No
short, to the obvious laws of Hygiene and common sense.  I told him, too, that
should be offered at least the 275th lay --that is, the 275th part of the clear
shoulders, and then insinuating himself between us, stood stooping forward a
side-pocket, here's a key that'll fit, I guess; let's see.  And with that,
side; and then bracing his left knee, and poising his harpoon, cried out in
signed; and what's to be, will be; and then again, perhaps it wont be, after
signing the articles, word was given at all the inns where the ship's company
signing, he turned to me and said, I guess Quohog there don't know how to
since.  But I thought, may be, you had both gone off and locked your baggage
sinister one.  I could only see part of the foot-board of the bed and a line of
sink thee foundering down to the fiery pit, Captain Peleg.
sister, had placed a small choice copy of Watts in each seaman's berth.
six-inch chapter is the stoneless grave of Bulkington.  Let me only say that
sleeper's head.  What's that for, Queequeg?  Perry easy, kill-e; oh!  perry
sleeping man, 'twas hard to choose between such winsome days and such
slightest consideration will show that though seven hundred and seventy-seven
slightest variety that I could see.  Well, what's the report?  said Peleg
sloped towards each other, and at the apex united in a tufted point, where
smoking to windward all the while; to windward, and with such nervous
snuffing in the trail of the wild beasts of the woodland, Tashtego now
so intense a Quaker.  What do ye think of him, Bildad?  said Peleg.  He'll
so long a voyage, without once laying my eyes on the man who was to be the
so saying, he moved along the windlass, here and there using his leg very
so that there was little or nothing, out of himself, to employ or excite Ahab,
some folks ashore call a conscience; it's a kind of Tic-Dolly-row they say
some people go about with a camphorated handkerchief to their mouths; so,
some quarters it still remains a moot point whether a whale be a fish.  In his
some such way as this: -- Cap'ain, you see him small drop tar on water dere?
somehow.  It flashed like a bleached bone.  What the devil's the matter with
something.  Come aboard, come aboard; never mind about the papers.  I say,
somewhere; he's talking about something and somebody we don't know.
soon be initiated into certain facts hitherto pretty generally unknown, and
soon be moving among ye --a pleasant sun is all he needs, and ye'll have
soon, I guess; unless it's before the Grand Jury.  And with these cracked
soothes.  Oh, my pipe!  hard must it go with me if thy charm be gone!  Here
sorry I stopped ye.  Look here, friend, said I, if you have anything
soul, when we were directly attracted to the sleeping rigger.  The strong
space permitted, it might be distinctly shown how from those whalemen at last
spare boats, spare spars, and spare lines and harpoons, and spare everythings,
speak?  It's I--Ishmael.  But all remained still as before.  I began to grow
speaking to, young man.  It belongs to me and Captain Bildad to see the
spectacles, he rubbed them with his great yellow bandana handkerchief, and
spiritual terrors, which sometimes menace you from the concentrating brow of
splice a rope, and all that, I made no doubt that from all I had heard I
spoiling our harpooneer,
spoken of, a tall, new-landed mariner, encountered in New Bedford at the inn.
spring, thou chap with the red whiskers; spring there, Scotchcap; spring,
spring, which, at sea, almost perpetually reigns on the threshold of the
sprouts, to welcome such glad-hearted visitants; so Ahab did, in the end, a
squatting on his hams, and holding Yojo on top of his head.  He looked neither
standing at her helm but Bulkington!  I looked with sympathetic awe and
starbuck, who is not afraid of a whale.  by this, he seemed to mean, not only
stark nonsense; bad for the health; useless for the soul; opposed, in
state, the sweetest of all oils?  Think of that, ye loyal Britons!  we
steadfastly eyeing Queequeg, and at last rising solemnly and fumbling in the
steadily, thy conscience may be drawing ten inches of water, or ten fathoms,
stern?  Well, the best thing you can do, Flask, is to let that old man alone;
steward, tell me that of a morning he always finds the old man's hammock
stiffly up like the spines of the three old kings of Cologne.  Her ancient
stiggs done over again --there goes another counterpane --god pity his poor
still found dividing the possession of the same seas with the Leviathan.  The
still grey and gloomy enough mornings of the transition, when with a fair wind
still lighted pipe into the sea.  The fire hissed in the waves; the same
still more from the original ruggedness of his nature, and open him still
stock-companies and nations; knaves,
stool on the weather side of the deck, he sat and smoked.  In old Norse times,
stooped to pick up a patch, or save an end of tarred twine, which otherwise
store; and meads and glades so eternally vernal, that the grass shot up by
story, that when he sailed the old Categut whaleman, his crew, upon arriving
straight out beyond the ship's ever-pitching prow.  There was an infinity of
straight, lofty trunk of a great tree, when the upper lightning
strange, thought I; but at any rate, since the harpoon stands yonder, and he
stranger would turn the same corner that we did.  He did; and then it seemed
strength, like a revivified Egyptian, this Starbuck seemed prepared to endure
strike the tent was well known to be the next thing to heaving up the anchor.
stuff of which the wigwam was constructed.  There was nothing so very
stumped and paupered arm of old Cervantes; Thou who didst pick up Andrew
subsequent laborers.  As no better man advances to take this matter in hand,
succession, lighting one from the other to the end of the chapter; then
sudden bodily rush dashed myself full against the mark.  With a prodigious
suddenly clapping his hand on my shoulder, said -- Did ye see anything looking
sufficiently proclaimed him an inheritor of the unvitiated blood of those
suitable circumstances, would break out from its confinement, and burn all his
sunrise.  Soon the crew came on board in twos and threes; the riggers
superfluousness.  But this, his thinness, so to speak, seemed no more the
superstitions of some of the earlier Puritans, and half believed this wild
superstitiousness, as has been said; the courage of this Starbuck which
surmise, which might tell eloquently upon his cause --such an advocate, would
surprising figure.  It turned out to be Captain Bildad, who along with
surprising forecast of things; and cherished Yojo with considerable esteem,
suspended, was now enjoying respite from the burden of command.  He was seated
suspicions even from himself.  And much this way it was with me.  I said
suspicious, don't it, eh? --Hast not been a pirate, hast thou? --Didst not rob
sweet, resigned girl.  Think of that; by that sweet girl that old man has a
tail, fanning into eddies the air over his head.  For what are the
tails.  His broad-brim was placed beside him; his legs were stiffly crossed;
take him fore and aft, he's about the queerest old man Stubb ever sailed
tame merchant-ship companies which my previous experiences had made me
task to catalogue all these things.  Let a handful suffice.  For many
task-master.  They told me in Nantucket, though it certainly seems a curious
tattered pea-jacket.  He was thrown at whole length upon two chests, his face
tauntings in Job might well appal me.  Will he (the leviathan) make a covenant
tawny brawn of his lithe snaky limbs, you would almost have credited the
tearingly darts down it, and without wrenching a single twig, peels and
teeth, and violently moving away, as if to avoid some passionate temptation.
tell Quohog there --what's that you call him?  tell Quohog to step along.  By
telling pantomime of action, and not a tame chapter of sounds.  Yet, for all
telling.  Whether he ever thought of it at all, might be a question; but, if
tempestuous term.  The land seemed scorching to his feet.  Wonderfullest
temporary erection used in port.  It was of a conical shape, some ten feet
than I did.  He looked at me with a sort of condescending concern and
that
that I was in, I somehow seemed to be thinking to myself, that after all, it
that I would now fain put before you.  Yet is it no easy task.  The
that craft, unless they previously produced their papers.  What do you mean
that for, I should like to know?  Who's made appointments with him in the hold?
that girl? --there, Betty, go to Snarles the Painter, and tell him to paint
that had accompanied us began ranging alongside.  It was curious and not
that he had been diligently consulting Yojo --the name of his black little god
that he was never very jolly; and I know that on the passage home, he was a
that his presence was by no means necessary in getting the ship under weigh,
that in this business of whaling, courage was one of the great staple outfits
that morning, he was every day visible to the crew; either standing in his
that pyramid?"  With that, he all of a sudden seemed somehow, in some queer
that ship's direst jeopardy; she must fly all hospitality; one touch of
that sort, he does not trouble himself much about his ship in port, but
that that's bloody on his mind.  But, mum; he comes this way.
that the most reliable and useful courage was that which arises from the fair
that this was a poor way to accumulate a princely fortune --and so it was, a
that wicked king was slain, the dogs, did they not lick his blood?
that word careful precisely means when used by a man like Stubb, or almost
that!  Mind what I said about the marchant service --don't aggravate me --I
that, but moody stricken Ahab stood before them with a crucifixion in his
that?  Queequeg thought he knew what he was about, I suppose; he seemed to be
the Greenland or right-whale, he is the best existing authority.  But Scoresby
the Greenland whale is almost unworthy mentioning.  And here be it said, that
the Greenland whale is an usurper upon the throne of the seas.  He is not even
the Indies, his live blood would not spoil like bottled
the Pequod's boats as headsmen.  In that grand order of battle in which
the Pequod, Isolatoes too, I call such, not acknowledging the common
the Pequod; and Captain Ahab; and the leg he had lost; and the Cape Horn
the Pequod?  Aye, among some of us old sailor chaps, he goes by that name.
the Vineyard; he joined the meeting, and never came to good.  He got so
the after hold for, every night, as Dough-Boy tells me he suspects; what's
the air; but, as yet, for all that he said, or perceptibly did, on the at
the bottom of which was formed of a stout interlacing of the same elastic
the bottomless deeps, could he find the torn limbs of his brother?  With
the business of whaling is not accounted on a level with what are called the
the cold and dark; this made me really wretched.  Think of it; sleeping all
the crew, were a far more barbaric, heathenish, and motley set than any of the
the entry a little, for a good start, when the landlady caught at me, again
the flood-tide, was now obliquely pointing towards the open ocean.  The
the fright.  "What am I about?" says I at last.  "And what business is that of
the great anchor, what a harpoon he's got there!  looks like good stuff that;
the green seas, and sent the shivering frost all over her, and the winds
the hand, and holding up a lantern, for a moment stood gazing heroically in
the island --and in childhood naturally imbibing the stately dramatic thee and
the jealous policy of the Spanish crown, touching those colonies; and, if
the lashed sea's landlessness again; for refuge's sake forlornly rushing into
the leeward land.  The port would fain give succor; the port is pitiful; in
the loose hairy fibres waved to and fro like a top-knot on some old
the marchant service?  he roared.  Spring, thou sheep-head; spring, and
the middle and highest part of the jaws of the right-whale.  Planted with their
the most sanguinary of all sailors and whale-hunters.  They are fighting
the muscles.  No small number of these whaling seamen belong to the Azores,
the name would somehow prove prophetic.  And, perhaps, other fools like her
the ninetieth lay, and that's more than ever was given a harpooneer yet out of
the now sacred retreat of the cabin.  Every time I ascended to the deck from my
the open air, that truly speaking, his visits were more to the cabin, than
the other.  Nor was Bildad himself nor Captain Peleg at all backward.  As for
the port is safety, comfort, hearthstone, supper, warm blankets, friends,
the present dark Ahab slipped my mind.
the present day not one in two of the many thousand men before the mast
the salt sea yet lingered in old Bildad's language, heterogeneously mixed with
the seclusion of the sea, became almost a perturbation.  This was strangely
the second mate's squire.  Third among the harpooneers was Daggoo, a gigantic,
the ship was rushing through the water with a vindictive sort of leaping and
the ship's decks, and struck the glistening tar spot out of sight.  Now,
the ship, so that the insider commanded a complete view forward.  And half
the singular posture he maintained.  Upon each side of the Pequod's quarter
the son fitly replacing the infallible arrow of the sires.  To look at the
the spring, untrodden, unwilted, remains at midsummer.  At last we gained such
the three hundredth, said Peleg, do ye hear that, Bildad!  The three
the thrones of the sea-loving Danish kings were fabricated, saith tradition,
the twenty-four; and he don't sleep then.  Didn't that Dough-Boy, the
the two, a close intimacy and friendliness; it is therefore but meet, that in
the veriest of all trifles --Captain Bildad
the victor's compliments to all his friends, just as though these presents
the voyage.  If I had been downright honest with myself, I would have seen
the wall, but nothing more.  I was surprised to behold resting against the
the waves; fixed his fiery lance in mightier stranger foes than whales.  His
the whale, the great Cuvier, and John Hunter, and Lesson, those lights of
the whole management of the ship's affairs to these two.  And I did not know
the world for a man to look as if he had a great secret in him.  Morning to
the world.  Want to see what whaling is, eh?  Have ye clapped eye on
their functions is gone through.  There is a saltcellar of state, so called,
their long keen whaling spears, they were as a picked trio of lancers; even
their slumbering shipmates; when this sort of steady quietude would begin to
them of men, who, named with Scripture names --a singularly common fashion on
them the monarch of the seas.  But the time has at last come for a new
them the way, and first interpreted between them and the savages.  They may
themselves are poor devils; they have no good blood in their veins.  No good
themselves on deck for a considerable time after heaving up the anchor, but
then back to me and tell me what ye see there.  For a moment I stood a little
then can it possibly be, but sperm oil in its unmanufactured, unpolluted
then it came upon him, not in the fury of any mortal fray, but in an
then revolved over once or twice; then sat up and rubbed his eyes.  Holloa!
then, just step forward there, and take a peep over the weather-bow, and
then, no one could say nay; but there might be some way of muffling the
then; but how hard he breathes, he's heaving himself; get off, Queequeg,
there
there about your souls?  About what?  Oh, perhaps you hav'n't got any, he
there all day and half the night on his hams in a cold room, holding a piece
there's one about a mile from here.  But avast!  putting her hand in her
there's something on his mind, as sure as there must be something on a deck
there, I mean Quohog, in one of our boats.  Look ye, Quohog, we'll give ye
there, tell 'em I've concluded not to make one of 'em.  Ah, my dear fellow,
there, the Pequod, then let me tell you, that I know all about the loss of
therefore the other and more inconsiderable and scattered owners, left nearly
these three headsmen were as captains of companies.  Or, being armed with
they said --therefore, Captain Ahab stayed below.  And all this seemed natural
they said; but somehow he got an inordinate quantity of cruel, unmitigated
they seemed to be the only commanders of the ship; only they sometimes issued
things altogether alien and heterogeneous.  For some of these same Quakers are
things are ever the unmentionable; deep memories yield no epitaphs; this
things should fail in latently engendering an element in him, which, under
things, made Stubb such an easygoing, unfearing man, so cheerily trudging off
things.  I was resolved to satisfy myself whether this ragged Elijah was
think that-- Merchant service be damned.  Talk not that lingo to me.  Dost
think.  Well, what dost thou think then of seeing the world?  Do ye wish to
thinking of shipping.  Thou wast, wast thou?  I see thou are no Nantucketer
this day its inhabitants in general retain in an uncommon measure the
this frigid
this narrow scuttle, to go to my grave-dug berth.  So, almost every
this place we set down who the Pequod's harpooneers were, and to what
this plaguey juggling thinks over by day-light.
this ridiculous Ramadan of his.  Besides, argued I, fasting makes the body
this, you still declare that whaling has no aesthetically noble associations
this: -- Quohog his mark.  Meanwhile Captain Bildad sat earnestly and
those other creatures in certain parts of our earth, who with a degree of
those who did this fetching and carrying was Captain Bildad's sister, a lean
thou gettest to sea?  I protested my innocence of these things.  I saw that
thou green pants.  Spring, I say, all of ye, and spring your eyes out!  And
thou of the Quaker idiom; still, from the audacious, daring, and boundless
thou went mate with Captain Ahab, did'st thou not think of Death and the
though a baked brick had been on it?  A hot old man!  I guess he's got what
though mostly confined to scientific description.  As yet, however, the sperm
though the 275th lay was what they call a rather long lay, yet it was
thought Starbuck, I am here in this critical ocean to kill whales for my
three barrels of ile, was found dead in my first floor back, with his
three chief officers of the ship, the mates, which was most forcibly
through life.  A staid, steadfast man, whose life for the most part was a
through.  With all her might she crowds all sail off shore; in so doing,
thunder him higher than a throne!  Thou who, in all Thy mighty, earthly
thundering against the side; and every sea breaking over us, fore and aft.
till it disappeared in his clothing, you saw a slender rod-like mark, lividly
till you could clutch something --a hammer or a marling-spike, and go to work
tiller was in one mass, curiously carved from the long narrow lower jaw of her
time I ever did pray.  It's queer; very queer; and he's queer too; aye,
time eluded him.  Alarmed at this terrible outburst between the two principal
time for an uninterrupted look at him.  Aye, the Pequod --that ship there, he
times these things bent the welded iron of his soul, much more did his
to English South-Sea whale-ships, and both exact and reliable men.  The
to accidents of all kinds, and especially to the destruction and loss of the
to charm him from his mood.  For, as when the red-cheeked, dancing girls,
to expose the fall of valor in the soul.  Men may seem detestable as joint
to have not the slightest intention of withdrawing.  He seemed quite used to
to just beyond the head of the sleeper, and lighted his tomahawk pipe.  I sat
to me that he was dogging us, but with what intent I could not for the life
to one side of her nose, she ruminated for an instant; then exclaimed -- No!  I
to pile themselves upon.  Nevertheless, ere long, the warm, warbling
to ship me.  And thou mayest as well sign the papers right off, he added
to smile at the solemn whimsicalities of that outlandish prophet of the
to stash it; so here goes to hammock again; and in the morning, I'll see how
to throw their costliest robes.  That immaculate manliness we feel within
to windward; looked towards the wide and endless waters, only bounded by the
to ye!  he rejoined, again moving off.  Oh!  I was going to warn ye against
to.  And so saying he went on deck, and we followed.  It was now clear
token of wasting anxieties and cares, than it seemed the indication of any
told you that I had been four voyages in the merchant-- Hard down out of
too, that ever since he lost his leg last voyage by that accursed whale, he's
top of that!  He might as well have kicked me, and done with it.  Maybe he
torrid sun, like a patent chronometer, his interior vitality was warranted to
touch that workman's arm with some ethereal light; if I shall spread a
towards him said, Captain Peleg, thou hast a generous heart; but thou must
towards night-fall; for I cherish the greatest respect towards everybody's
towards the ship, Queequeg carrying his harpoon, Captain Peleg in his gruff
treasure is, there will your heart be also.  I am going to put him down for
tribe of Massachusetts Indians, now extinct as the ancient Medes.  I peered
tricking herself forth in the chased bones of her enemies.  All round, her
trifling little affair.  Next morning early, leaving Queequeg shut up with
tripod of bones, without bethinking him of the royalty it symbolized?  For a
trouble in order to kill and boil.  This ignorant, unconscious fearlessness of
tumble aloft, and bestir themselves there, about something which he would find
turnstile wheel at her reverend helm, she sported there a tiller; and that
twenty-four hours, when the watches of the night were set, and the band on
ultimate generalizing purpose all these have written, the above cited extracts
unaccountable Ramadan!  But somehow I dropped off at last, and knew nothing
unclad, lovely island creatures, round the Horn --all that had not moved this
under the mask of these half humorous inuendoes, this old seaman, as an
unfort'nt v'y'ge of his, when he was gone four years and a half, with only
unpanelled, open bulwarks were garnished like one continuous jaw, with the
unpitying lance coolly and off-handedly, as a whistling tinker his hammer.
unpleasing, how Peleg and Bildad were affected at this juncture, especially
unwithdrawn within.  Have to burst it open, said I, and was running down
unwittingly pay us the profoundest homage; yea, an all-abounding adoration!
up after me, she caught me as I was again trying to force open the door.  I
upon him.  Those sailors we saw, Queequeg, where can they have gone to?
upon one of those fast days for which his state is famous.  Only some thirty
upon the soul, especially when the still mild hours of eve came on; then,
upon the whole broad world, taken in one aggregate, than the high and mighty
upon the whole, a man might rather have done than to have left undone; if, at
upwards of eight or ten hours, going too without his regular meals.  Mrs.
us, you are mistaken in your game; that's all I have to say.  And it's said
used to be good at sharpening a lance, mend that pen, will ye.  My jack-knife
vapor now completely filling the contracted hole, it began to tell upon him.
various species, or-- in this place at least --to much of any description.  My
vastly superior to other mortals, pagans and what not, because of their
venerable bows looked bearded.  Her masts--cut somewhere on the coast of Japan,
very large; but considering that I was used to the sea, could steer a ship,
very plainly in my heart that I did but half fancy being committed this way to
very point of starting for the voyage, Captain Peleg and Captain Bildad were
very poor way indeed.  But I am one of those that never take on about princely
very slip-shod, I assure ye.  Supper concluded, we received a lamp, and
very things upon which the success of the voyage most depends.  Hence, the
very well, and I like to hear a chap talk up that way; you are just the man
vexed with him; it seemed so downright senseless and insane to be sitting
vinegar-cruet
visible hands; I am in earnest; and I will try.  There are some
visible in some intrepid men, which, while generally abiding firm in the
visible; for my first vague disquietude touching the unknown captain, now in
vocation amounts to a butchering sort of business; and that when actively
voice loudly hailed us from his wigwam, saying he had not suspected my friend
voluntary and confiding breast, and thereby chiefly, but with some help from
vowing I should not break down her premises; but I tore from her, and with a
voyages are so prolonged, and the shore intervals at home so exceedingly
wad me that fashion?  But go thy ways; I had forgot.  Below to thy nightly
wall the wooden shaft of Queequeg's harpoon, which the landlady the evening
want?  groaned Bildad, glancing up from the book in which he had again been
wantest to know what whaling is, as thou tellest ye do, I can put ye in a way
was Elijah.  Going aboard?  Hands off, will you, said I. Lookee here,
was Tashtego, an unmixed Indian from Gay Head, the most westerly promontory of
was a Quaker, the island having been originally settled by that sect; and to
was a cannibal, and furthermore announcing that he let no cannibals on board
was a native of Cape Cod; and hence, according to local usage, was called a
was a sort of point of honor with him, to destroy them whenever encountered.
was all eagerness to vanish from before the awakened wrath of Peleg.  But to
was carried on between Europe and the long line of the opulent Spanish
was locked; and not a mouse to be heard; and it's been just so silent ever
was no telling how soon the vessel might be sailing.  So Queequeg and I got
was not in reasonable nature that a man so organized, and with such terrible
was not much of an insult, that kick from ahab.  "Why," thinks I,"what's the
was on him too deep for common regardings; and as with heavy, lumber-like
was soon enrolled among the same ship's company to which I myself belonged.
was there, though hitherto unseen by any eyes not permitted to penetrate into
was thinking of.  Bildad said no more, but buttoning up his coat, stalked on
was to be found.  And what dost thou want of Captain Ahab?  It's all right
was unmethodically rushing up stairs again empty-handed, when Mrs. Hussey
was up, the sails were set, and off we glided.  It was a short, cold
was young Nat Swaine, once the bravest boat-header out of all Nantucket and
was, and mind ye, if-- Come, come, Captain Bildad; stop palavering, --away!
watch, so soon as I levelled my glance towards the taffrail, foreboding
watches below, I instantly gazed aft to mark if any strange face were
water, for the moment each occupied with his own thoughts, when the above
water; considerable horizon though, and there's a squall coming up, I
way that you do yours in approved state stocks bringing in good interest.
we are, said I, but what business is that of yours?  Do you know, Mr.
well listen.  Mark ye, be forewarned; Ahab's above the common; Ahab's been
well to have a look at him before irrevocably committing yourself into his
well, then, let him rest; he'll get up sooner or later, no doubt.  It can't
well-earned income.  Now Bildad, I am sorry to say, had the reputation of
were so many Christmas turkeys.  After all, I do not think that my remarks
were stopping, that their chests must be on board before night, for there
were three ships up for three-years' voyages --The Devil-Dam the Tit-bit,
were working till long after night-fall.  On the day following Queequeg's
whale, scientific or poetic, lives not complete in any literature.  Far above
whale-boat as if the most deadly encounter were but a dinner, and his crew
whaleboat, with her last gift --a night-cap for Stubb, the second mate, her
whaleboning that he gave me --not a base kick.  Besides," thinks I,"look at it
whalemen supply your kings and queens with coronation stuff!
whales need some sort of popular comprehensive classification, if only an easy
whales, for fear of after-claps in case he got stove and went to Davy Jones.
whales.  many are the men, small and great, old and new, landsmen and seamen,
whaling preparatives needing supervision the mates were fully competent to,
whaling ships from Dunkirk, and politely invite to that town some score or two
whaling.  No dignity in whaling?  The dignity of our calling the very
whaling; for a whale-ship was my Yale College and my Harvard.
whaling?  But this is not the half; look again.  I freely assert, that the
wharf, Queequeg had not at all noticed what I now alluded to; hence I would
wharves.  But whatever it was of apprehensiveness or uneasiness --to call it so
what have you to complain of?  Didn't he kick with right good will?  it wasn't
what seemed like mystery in him, so imperfectly as he was known to me then.
when I came back; what did ye see?  Not much, I replied -- nothing but
when I felt a sudden sharp poke in my rear, and turning round, was horrified
when it cracks.  He aint in his bed now, either, more than three hours out of
when the fire has overrunningly wasted all the limbs without consuming them,
where her original ones were lost overboard in a gale --her masts stood
where the outward bound Nantucket whalers frequently touch to augment their
whereas, if a broad footed farmer kicked me, there's a devilish broad insult.
which I had so abandonedly embarked.  But it was especially the aspect of the
which an old shipmate sailed as captain; a man almost as old as he, once
which had no chart, where no Cook or Vancouver had ever sailed.  If American
which you and I, and Captain Peleg there, and Queequeg here, and all of us,
which, it seemed, had in its two uses both brained his foes and soothed his
which, on all hands, radiates without end from God; Himself!  The great God
which, upon the whole, will triumphantly plant the sperm whale-ship at least
whiffs, as if, like the dying whale, my final jets were the strongest and
while I am putting up at this grim sign of the Thunder Cloud.  Upon the whole,
while leaning over the bulwarks; and then, as had been usual with him of
whistled at last -- the squall's gone off to leeward, I think.  Bildad, thou
whitish.  It resembled that perpendicular seam sometimes made in the
whose owner at the same time coming close behind us, laid a hand upon both our
wicked name.  Besides, my boy, he has a wife --not three voyages wedded --a
wilfulness, in the fixed and fearless, forward dedication of that glance.  Not
will be completely fitted out, and receive all her crew on board, ere the
will be due; for already she is on the threshold.  But if, in the face of all
will show.  Of the names in this list of whale authors, only those following
will then see, I say, that the seven hundred and seventy-seventh part of a
winter night in the boisterous Atlantic, spite of my wet feet and wetter
wise man of me, Flask.  D'ye see Ahab standing there, sideways looking over the
with a view of making its interior run well, as they anoint machinery?  Much
with clam-shells.  Mrs. Hussey wore a polished necklace of codfish vertebra;
with him, or whether it was the scar left by some desperate wound, no one
with that.  Now when I looked about the quarter-deck, for some one having
with the burden of life in a world full of grave peddlers, all bowed to the
with thee?  Behold the hope of him is vain!  But I have swam through
with whalemen.  For besides the great length of the whaling voyage, the
with.  How he flashed at me! --his eyes like powder-pans!  is he mad?  Anyway
without lifting his eyes; and then went on mumbling -- for where your
won't allow it; I won't have my premises spoiled.  Go for the locksmith,
won't have it.  But let us understand each other.  I have given thee a hint
wonders of God!  But, though the world scouts at us whale hunters, yet does it
wondrous whale was but a species of magnified mouse, or at least water-rat,
word he.  Queequeg, said I, let's go; this fellow has broken loose from
word, Queequeg, said I, rather digressively; hell is an idea first born on
words he finally departed, leaving me, for the moment, in no small wonderment
words were put to us by a stranger, who, pausing before us, levelled his
world declines honoring us whalemen, is this: they think that, at best, our
world's capital, the bones of a whale, brought all the way from the Syrian
world, if only to fall right asleep.  And now that I think of it, that's
would almost as soon have expected him to turn out of his bunk without his
would fain advance naught but substantiated facts.  But after embattling his
would follow me.  But previous to turning in, I took my heavy bearskin
would have been the reverberating crack and din of that bony step, that their
would not move a peg, nor say a single word, nor even look at me, nor
would sink the ship before the anchor could be got up; involuntarily I paused
write, does he?  I say, Quohog, blast ye!  dost thou sign thy name or make thy
ye feel considerable proud of having served in those marchant ships.  But
ye have heard of that, I dare say.  Oh yes, that every one knows a'most --I
ye see a white one, split your lungs for him!  What d'ye think of that now,
ye've been to sea before now; sure of that?  Sir, said I, I thought I
ye, shipmates, morning.  Morning it is, said I. Come along, Queequeg,
ye--there's something special in the wind.  Stand by for it, Flask.  Ahab has
ye.  Think of that!  When every moment we thought the ship would sink!  Death
years
years past the whale-ship has been the pioneer in ferreting out the remotest
yes, I can.  As for Peleg himself, he took it more like a philosopher; but
yet I also felt a strange awe of him; but that sort of awe, which I cannot at
yet had he in his straight-bodied coat, spilled tuns upon tuns of leviathan
yet he don't look so.  In fact, he ain't sick; but no, he isn't well either.
yet lingering images of those thousand-fold perils he had calmly confronted
yet of books there are
you about him?  Say that!  They didn't tell much of anything about him; only
you are heavy, it's grinding the face of the poor.  Get off, Queequeg!  Look,
you can't fool us that way --you can't fool us.  It is the easiest thing in
you ever stand in the head of a whale-boat?  did you ever strike a fish?
you stand?  I was a little staggered, but go a-whaling I must, and I would;
young Hittite.  What church dost thee mean?  answer me.  Finding myself thus
young man, we may be taking the bread from those widows and those orphans.
young man.  No, said Peleg, and he hasn't been baptized right either, or
your hat in presence of the Czar, and take it off to Queequeg!  No more!  I
yours, I should like to know, Mr. Humpback?  Do you want a
youth Daggoo had voluntarily shipped on board of a whaler, lying in a lonely
zoology and anatomy.  Nevertheless, though of real knowledge there be little,
