



















































     Already has it been
     Besides her hoisted boats, an American
     Bouton part of the inscription, yet the word rose, and the bulbous
     Broke it?
     De balena vero sufficit, si rex habeat
     Had you descended from the Pequod's
     Had you stepped on board the Pequod at a
     He vows and declares, Monsieur, that the other whale, the dried one, is far
     I wish it was broken, or that I didn't have any nose at all!  answered the
     In vain it was to rake
     Is this the still militant old man, standing at the corners of the three
     It was but some few days after
     Loose-Fish?  What is the principle of religious belief in them but a
     No boat-knife was lifted when he fell so rapidly astern.  Stubb's inexorable
     Now this ambergris is a very curious
     That whale of Stubb's so dearly
     The allusion to the waifs
     Ultimately the defendants (the crew of another ship) came up with the whale,
     What now?  said the Guernsey-man to Stubb.  Why, since he takes it so easy,
     a
     always the whale-ship's stokers.  With huge pronged poles they pitched
     and have a long talk with its inmates.  This place has previously been
     back, just in time to prevent the vessel from flying up into the wind, and
     berg, to put up), this village was founded in order to afford a place for
     broke to my fingers, and discharged all their opulence, like fully ripe
     but a
     but in the wife, the heart, the bed, the table, the saddle, the fire-side,
     crim.  con.  case, wherein a gentleman, after in vain trying to bridle his
     eternally.  In thoughts of the visions of the night, I saw long rows of
     for one single moment you would have almost thought you were standing in
     from the boat, is still better.  Moreover, as if perceiving at last that if
     he did not mean to, at least.  Because there were two boats in his wake, and
     inclosed surface of the works.  By a tunnel inserted at the rear, this
     it operates like a leathern squilgee; and by nameless blandishments, as of
     lay before you a circumstance that happened within the last two years.  It
     my God!  who can tell it?  Mark, how when sailors in a dead calm bathe in
     nose in a sort of bag.  What's the matter with your nose, there?  said Stubb.
     now, since by many prolonged, repeated experiences, I have perceived that in
     occupying a conspicuous pulpit; intent on bible leaves; what a candidate for
     oil is much accelerated, and its quantity considerably increased, besides
     puffing tobacco-smoke, so that it constantly filled their olfactories.
     said the Guernsey-man, in French, turning to his captain, that only
     that at last I was continually squeezing their hands, and looking up into
     the baling of the Heidelburgh Tun, or Case.  While some were occupied with
     the morn will show in far other, at least gentler, relief; the glorious,
     them for Sperm Whale spouts; yes, and sometimes sailing from their port with
     though it seemed but a minute since I had been watching the card, by the
     to the defendants; the whale, because it was a Loose-Fish at the time of the
     whaleman, as he seeks the food of light, so he lives in light.  He makes his
     yet steadfastly shot her red hell further and further into the blackness of
     yet the two substances are quite distinct.  For amber, though at times found
(both letters were published) that he had already done so, and received the
(the reverend gentleman) would decline meddling with other people's business.
-- Bouton-de-Rose, ahoy!  are there any of you Bouton-de-Roses that speak
--so truly English --knowing not what to say, fall to vigorously scratching
--that having a long tow-line in his boat, he would do what he could to help
.  But
.. < chapter lxxxix 2  FAST-FISH AND LOOSE-FISH >
.. < chapter xc 2  HEADS OR TAILS >
.. < chapter xci 2  THE PEQUOD MEETS THE ROSE-BUD >
.. < chapter xcii 31  AMBERGRIS >
.. < chapter xciii 15  THE CASTAWAY >
.. < chapter xciv 26  A SQUEEZE OF THE HAND >
.. < chapter xcv 6  THE CASSOCK >
.. < chapter xcvi 17  THE TRY-WORKS >
.. < chapter xcvii 9  THE LAMP >
.. < chapter xcviii 2  STOWING DOWN AND CLEARING UP >
.. <p 393 >
.. <p 394 >
.. <p 395 >
.. <p 396 >
.. <p 397 >
.. <p 398 >
.. <p 399 >
.. <p 400 >
.. <p 401 >
.. <p 402 >
.. <p 403 >
.. <p 404 >
.. <p 405 >
.. <p 406 >
.. <p 406 >
.. <p 407 >
.. <p 408 >
.. <p 409 >
.. <p 409 >
.. <p 410 >
.. <p 411 >
.. <p 412 >
.. <p 413 >
.. <p 413 >
.. <p 414 >
.. <p 415 >
.. <p 416 >
.. <p 417 >
.. <p 417 >
.. <p 418 >
.. <p 418 >
.. <p 418n. >
.. <p 419 >
.. <p 420 >
.. <p 421 >
.. <p 422 >
.. <p 423 >
.. <p 423 >
.. <p 424 >
According to this little plan of theirs, the Guernsey-man, under cover of an
Alas!  Stubb was but too true to his word.  It was a beautiful, bounteous,
And by the soundest commentators this has ever been held a cogent argument
And even if he for ever flies within the gorge, that gorge is in the
And what are you, reader, but a Loose-Fish and a Fast-Fish, too?
Bible leaves!  Bible leaves!  This is the invariable cry from the mates to
Bobbing up and down in that sea, Pip's ebon head showed like a head of cloves.
Brandreth's pills, and then running out of harm's way, as laborers do in
But it so happened, that those boats, without seeing Pip, suddenly spying
But that night, in particular, a strange (and ever since inexplicable)
Captain Coffin was examined at the bar of the English House of Commons on that
Captain's round-house abaft; and looking in that direction saw a fiery face
Cinque Ports are partially or somehow under the jurisdiction of a sort of
Cinque Ports, had after a hard chase succeeded in killing and beaching a fine
Coke-upon-Littleton of the fist.  True, among the more upright and honorable
Connecticut, he had once enlivened many a fiddler's frolic on the green; and
During the night-watches some cynical old sailors will crawl into them and
English?  Yes, rejoined a Guernsey-man from the bulwarks, who turned out
Fast-Fish?  What are the Duke of Dunder's hereditary towns and hamlets but
Fast-Fish?  What to that redoubted harpooneer, John Bull, is poor Ireland,
For example, --after a weary and perilous chase and capture of a whale, the
Frenchman's two whales.  Elsewhere in this volume the slanderous aspersion has
Greece to the Turk?  What India to England?  What at last will Mexico be to
Guernsey-man had a little chat with him, during which the stranger mate
Guernsey-man, who did not seem to relish the job he was at very much.  But
Harpooneer, must have the head, and the Queen be respectfully presented with
Here lounged the watch, when not otherwise employed, looking into the red
Hereby perhaps Stubb indirectly hinted, that though man loved his fellow,
I must go.  He says, Monsieur, that his principles won't admit of his
I myself almost melted into it; I squeezed that sperm till a strange sort of
I sat down before a large Constantine's bath of it, I found it strangely
I.  Lo!  in my brief sleep I had turned myself about, and was fronting the
If he cuts off one of his own toes, or one of his assistants', would you be
Immemorial to all his order, this investiture alone will adequately protect
In outer aspect, Pip and Dough-Boy made a match, like a black pony and a
Kedron, as darkly set forth in the 15th chapter of the first book of Kings.
Laws of England, which taken along with the context, means, that of all whales
Leviathan's tail: it averages an inch in thickness, and for the rest, is
Leviathan.  Nippers.  Strictly this word is not indigenous to the whale's
Leviathans, and proverbially the most dangerous to encounter; excepting
Liberties of the World but Loose-Fish?  What all men's minds and opinions but
Look at the sailor, called the mincer, who now comes along, and assisted by
Loose-Fish is fair game for anybody who can soonest catch it.  But what plays
Loose-Fish?  What to the ostentatious smuggling verbalists are the thoughts of
Lord Warden's.  Upon this the poor mariners in their respectful consternation
Maachah in Judea; and for worshipping which, king Asa, her son, did depose
Marking all this, Stubb argued well for his scheme, and turning to the
Mecca, for the same purpose that frankincense is carried to St.  Peter's in
Meddling with other People's Business.  Yes; these laws might be engraven on a
Monsieur had best drop all four boats, and pull the ship away from these
Nevertheless, in the proper place we shall see that no knowing fisherman will
Now that the incorruption of this most fragrant ambergris should be found in
Pandects and the By-laws of the Chinese Society for the Suppression of
Paul in Corinthians, about corruption and incorruption; how that we are sown
Pequod with the little negro Pippin by nick-name, Pip by abbreviation.  Poor
Perhaps the only formal whaling code authorized by legislative enactment, was
Philistines, has but two props to stand on.  Is it not a saying in every one's
Pip loved life, and all life's peaceable securities; so that the
Pip!  ye have heard of him before; ye must remember his tambourine on that
Pip's ringed horizon began to expand around him miserably.  By the merest
Queen Anne's farthing, or the barb of a harpoon, and worn round the neck, so
Queen-pinmoney, an old King's Bench author, one William Prynne, thus
Roman tiles and pottery buried in fat English loam.  His boat's crew were all
Rome.  Some wine merchants drop a few grains into claret, to flavor it.  Who
Rose-bud, that it's all nonsense trying to get any oil out of such whales?  As
Sahara, nor all the millions of miles of deserts and of griefs beneath the
Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, his spermaceti, oil, and bone pass unscathed
Solomon.  But even Solomon, he says, the man that wandereth out of the way
Some few hands are reserved called ship-keepers, whose province it is to work
Sorrows, and the truest of all books is Solomon's, and Ecclesiastes is the
Squeeze!  squeeze!  squeeze!  all the morning long; I squeezed that sperm till
Stubb was now politely introduced by the Guernsey-man, who at once
Stubb was struck by a shower of outcries and anathemas proceeding from the
Stubb, that somewhere hereabouts are some of those drugged whales we tickled
Such a clearer!  such a sweetener!  such a softener!  such a delicious
The burning ship drove on, as if remorselessly commissioned to some vengeful
The intense concentration of self in the middle of such a heartless immensity,
There is a wisdom that is woe; but there is a woe that is madness.  And there
There is another substance, and a very singular one, which turns up in the
They generally go in pairs, --a pike-and-gaff-man and a spade-man.  The
Tranquilly permitting these irregular cursings to evaporate, Stubb then in a
Whale --no.  Very good, then; good bye now, and I'll call again in a
White Whale?  What whale?  The White Whale --a Sperm Whale --Moby Dick,
Wrapped, for that interval, in darkness myself, I but the better saw the
Yet so it is.  By some, ambergris is supposed to be the cause, and by others
a Lying-in Hospital.  I partly surmise also, that this wicked charge against
a bunch of posies, will ye, Bouton-de-Rose?  What in the devil's name do you
a dead comrade from the field.  extending it upon the forecastle deck, he now
a fish is technically fast when it bears a waif, or any other recognised
a jackal for ye!  I well know that these Crappoes of Frenchmen are but poor
a reckless, rollicking rate, that no prudent underwriter would insure them
a red cotton velvet vest with watch-seals at his side.  To this gentleman,
a sagacious lawyer like Prynne.  But is the Queen a mermaid, to be presented
a subsequent gentleman re-harpooned her, the lady then became that subsequent
ability at any time to take it alongside, as well as their intention so to
aboard, and mayhap he'll believe you, if he won't me; and so I'll get out of
about the size of the iron part of a hoe.  Edgewise moved along the oily deck,
admirable brevity of it, which necessitates a vast volume of commentaries to
advice, and concluded with a peremptory command, Stick to the boat, Pip, or
after completely filling her hold with oil, does not, perhaps, consume fifty
afterwards took the fish; ergo, the aforesaid articles were theirs.  A common
again.  Issuing from the cabin, Stubb now called his boat's crew, and pulled
again.  It was under very similar circumstances to the first performance; but
against a blue-veined neck, the pure-watered diamond drop will healthful
against his chest, he breasted it overboard with him, so as to become
against my principles to drink with the man I've diddled.  In fact, tell him
against whalemen, and which, in the estimation of some already biased minds,
all blending with it for a time.  I have it, I have it, cried Stubb, with
all cases man must eventually lower, or at least shift, his conceit of
all controllable by the occupant or occupants, -- a mast, an oar, a nine-inch
almost have thought he was digging a cellar there in the sea; and when at
almost invariably in the fishery, a coward, so called, is marked with the same
alongside of it.  Yet are there those who will still do it; notwithstanding
alongside.  Upon this the captain started, and eagerly desired to know more.
alongside; and this second whale seemed even more of a nosegay than the
always done; but cutting up the fresh blubber in small bits, thrust it
ambergris affair Stubb's after-oarsman chanced so to sprain his hand, as
ambergris, certain hard, round, bony plates, which at first Stubb thought
ambergris, worth a gold guinea an ounce to any druggist.  Some six handfuls
an abounding, affectionate, friendly, loving feeling did this avocation beget;
an archbishoprick, what a lad for a Pope were this mincer!
and Stubb returned to the Frenchman.  He now perceived that the Guernsey-man,
and also from the thicker portions of his flukes.  It is tough with congealed
and blow.  While still warm, the oil, like hot punch, is received into the
and cheese of hundreds of thousands of broken-backed laborers (all sure of
and elucidated by Lord Ellenborough in the above cited case; these two laws
and for long hours silently guided the way of this fire-ship on the sea.
and hailing the pequod to give notice of his intentions, at once proceeded to
and jails, and walks fast crossing grave-yards, and would rather talk of
and lurches about.  Meanwhile, the spade-man stands on the sheet itself,
and pick him up; though, indeed, such considerations towards oarsmen
and so floated an unappropriated corpse.  It may well be conceived, what an
and that done, unofficially gave him much wholesome advice.  The substance
and then pairs of them would drop their work, and run up to the mast-head to
and there adhering to the blanket of blubber, and often participating to a
and vials, though --to the copper cooler at the try-works, and replenishes
and viciously spat round her on all sides; then the rushing Pequod, freighted
and waif-poles in the last chapter but one, necessitates some account of the
and weal or woe, feels then uncompromised, indifferent as his God.  For the
and which is two thirds of this earth.  So, therefore, that mortal man who
angels in paradise, each with his hands in a jar of spermaceti.  Now, while
anomaly of the most solid masonry joining with oak and hemp in constituting
another lonely castaway, though the loftiest and the brightest.  Now, in calm
any more than he would a riotous lad at Yale or Harvard.  They soon relinquish
any other race.  For blacks, the year's calendar should show naught but three
apart.  But, spite of all this, I could see no compass before me to steer by;
appeared from his cabin.  He was a small and dark, but rather delicate looking
archbishop of Savesoul's income of 100,000 pounds seized from the scant bread
arm-holes at the other end, he lengthwise slips himself bodily into it.  The
around him, it was plain that the whale alongside must be what the fishermen
as I should conceive a royal cutlet from the thigh of Louis le Gros might
as half a glimpse of that unaccountable cone, -- longer than a Kentuckian is
as the soundest advice ever is.  Now, in general, Stick to the boat, is
at last to that celestial thought, which, to reason, is absurd and frantic;
at melodious even-tide, with his gay ha-ha!  had turned the round horizon into
attainable felicity; not placing it anywhere in the intellect or the fancy;
back was turned upon him; and the whale was winged.  In three minutes, a
be finally killed and captured by another vessel; and herein are indirectly
be luridly illumined by strange wild fires, that fictitiously showed him off
beautiful object to behold.  As its name imports, it is of an exceedingly
become a complete calm; so that whether or no, the Pequod was now fairly
been disproved, that the vocation of whaling is throughout a slatternly,
befell myself.
before his passive eyes; and the miser-merman, Wisdom, revealed his hoarded
began to credit the old Paracelsan superstition that sperm is of rare virtue
begging him to take the case of those unfortunate
beheaded was killed) his great padded surtout becomes the property of his
beneath, till the snaky flames darted, curling, out of the doors to catch
benevolently towed away at his whale the other way, ostentatiously slacking
berth an Aladdin's lamp, and lays him down in it; so that in the pitchiest
bewildered feeling, as of death, came over me.  Convulsively my hands grasped
blasted whales in general.  The Pequod had now swept so nigh to the stranger,
blasting rocks.  I have forgotten to say that there were found in this
blubber, now called scraps or fritters, still contains considerable of its
blue day; the spangled sea calm and cool, and flatly stretching away, all
body may get loose from the ship by reason of a violent storm; and drifting
bore down upon the turkish frigates, and folded them in conflagrations.  The
bound to any haven ahead as rushing from all havens astern.  A stark,
brick and mortar, some ten feet by eight square, and five in height.  The
brittle, odorless substance, used for mouth-pieces to pipes, for beads and
broken the stems of their pipes almost short off at the bowl, were vigorously
brought by the lee!  look not too long in the face of the fire, O man!  Never
brought them all into so unsavory and unprofitable a pickle.  Sounding him
bulwarks, and with a capacious tub beneath it, into which the minced pieces
burning martyr, or a self-consuming misanthrope, once ignited, the whale
business of preparing the sperm whale for the try-works.  First comes
but Fast-Fish, whereof possession is the whole of the law?  What to the
but a Fast-Fish?  And concerning all these, is not Possession the whole of
but a Fast-Fish?  What to that apostolic lancer, Brother Jonathan, is Texas
but happily, for that time, escaped close contact with the whale; and
but how like all creation it smells!  Now in order to hold direct
butter in April.  He goes and hunts for his oil, so as to be sure of its
by a large, sloping, battened hatchway.  Removing this hatch we expose the
by chopping up and trying out these three masts of ours, than he'll get from
by it, as one river will flow into and then along with another, without at
by the Lord, I wont pick you up if you jump; mind that.  We can't afford
bye.
cable, a telegraph wire, or a strand of cobweb, it is all the same.  Likewise
call a blasted whale, that is, a whale that has died unmolested on the sea,
called it) to avoid the pest; but still, could not help yelling out his
called, is a term properly belonging to right whalemen, but sometimes
came into possession?  But often possession is the whole of the law.  What are
captain snapped his fingers in the plaintiffs' teeth, and assured them that by
captured by anybody on the coast of that land, the King, as Honorary Grand
caput, et regina caudam.  Bracton, l 3.  c. 3.  Latin from the books of the
carefully, Stubb further perceived that the Guernsey-man had not the
caught belongs to the King and Queen, because of its superior excellence.
cemeteries, in the Greenland dock, a savor is given forth somewhat similar to
certain Nantucket-born
certain juncture of this post-mortemizing of the whale; and had you strolled
certainly gave forth no very pleasant savor.  But all this is quite different
chance the ship itself at last rescued him; but from that hour the little
chapter with the above appeal, but cannot, owing to my anxiety to repel a
charge often made
chase of a whale in the Northern seas; and when indeed they (the plaintiffs)
cistern in the whale's huge head; not the prodigy of his unhinged lower jaw;
co-laborers' hands in it, mistaking their hands for the gentle globules.  Such
coil themselves away there for a nap.  While employed in polishing them --one
commenced an excavation in the body, a little behind the side fin.  You would
communication with the people on deck, he had to pull round the bows to the
companions swim around her with every token of concern, sometimes lingering
comprised many minor contingencies, all partaking of this one grand feature.
comrades quit him.  But strike a member of the harem school, and her
concreted into lumps, here and there rolling about in the liquid part.  It
condemned cell.  And as for the other whale, why, I'll agree to get more oil
confess, that once I stole behind the foremast to try it.  It tasted something
conscious of something fatally wrong.  The jaw-bone tiller smote my side,
considerable degree in its unctuousness.  It is a most refreshing, convivial,
consists in mincing the horse-pieces of blubber for the pots; an operation
cook, fire the works.  This was an easy thing, for the carpenter had been
copy of Blackstone under his arm; and laying it upon the whale's head, he
course of this business, but which I feel it to be very puzzling adequately
course; and all round the hoops, rap, rap, go as many hammers as can play
cruising in company, a whale may be struck by one vessel, then escape, and
cutting-tackles, and at once cast loose the cables and chains confining the
dark, and stumble in darkness to his pallet, this is his usual lot.  But the
days in the business of boiling out; and in the state that it is casked, the
deaden thee; as for the time it did me.
deck, like so many land slides, till at last man-handled and stayed in their
deed.  So the pitch and sulphur-freighted brigs of the bold Hydriote, Canaris,
deep; how he is then towed alongside and beheaded; and how (on the
defendants; Lord Ellenborough was the judge.  In the course of the defence,
delight, striking something in the subterranean regions, a purse!  a
depths, where strange shapes of the unwarped primal world glided to and fro
devils in the fishery; sometimes lowering their boats for breakers, mistaking
disappointed, especially as the horrible nosegay increased, when suddenly
discourseth: Ye tail is ye Queen's, that ye Queen's wardrobe may be supplied
discoursing of sperm, it behooves to speak of other things akin to it, in the
divided in the same way as the whale, the King receiving the highly dense and
divinest symbol of the crystal skies, looks like some crown-jewel stolen from
do.  These are scientific commentaries; but the commentaries of the whalemen
doors of iron.  The intense heat of the fire is prevented from communicating
dramatic midnight, so gloomy-jolly.
dream with thy hand on the helm!  Turn not thy back to the compass; accept
drinking; but that if Monsieur wants to live another day to drink, then
drop, fast as the sheets from a rapt orator's desk.  Arrayed in decent black;
duke so very poor as to be forced to this desperate mode of getting a
duty!  no wonder that in old times this sperm was such a favorite cosmetic.
eccentric span.  But while hapless Dough-Boy was by nature dull and torpid in
eddying cloud of vulture sea-fowl that circled, and hovered, and swooped
effulgences, infernally superb; then the evil-blazing diamond, once the
elastic head peculiar to that fish, which, symbolically regarded, may
encountering the Frenchman, that a most significant event befell the most
ended in providing the sometimes madly merry and predestinated craft with a
entangled in it, when at last plumping into the water.  That instant the
entire freedom the whaleman takes his handful of lamps --often but old bottles
entrapped in the smell, with no hope of escaping except by its breezing up
entrapped, had most sadly blurred his brightness; though, as ere long will be
entreaties and indignations at times.
ever turn up his nose at such a whale as this, however much he may shun
exclaimed interrogatively, cut?  meantime pip's blue, choked face plainly
executioner; how, in due time, he is condemned to the pots, and, like
expound it.  First: What is a Fast-Fish?  Alive or dead a fish is technically
expressed his detestation of his Captain as a conceited ignoramus, who had
far away to leeward, be retaken by a second whaler, who, in a calm, snugly
fast, when it is connected with an occupied ship or boat, by any medium at
fat-kettles, and oil sheds; and when the works were in full operation
features, now all begrimed with smoke and sweat, their matted beards, and
feigned to cast off from the whale; hoisting his boats, the Frenchman soon
fellow, now, he banteringly laughed, standing in the ship's bows, there's
felt like eels, and began, as it were, to serpentine and spiralize.  As I sat
fiend shapes before me, capering half in smoke and half in fire, these at
fight you like grim fiends exasperated by a penal gout.  The Forty-barrel-bull
figure-head put together, sufficiently explained the whole to him.  A wooden
final capture; and the harpoons and line because when the fish made off with
find it needful.  Now upon the second lowering, the boat paddled upon the
fine hammered steel of woe.  All is vanity.  ALL.  This wilful world hath
fine vintage of the vineyards of Champagne.
first.  In truth, it turned out to be one of those problematical whales that
fishermen have been their own legislators and lawyers in this matter.  They
flames, which at intervals forked forth from the sooty flues, and
fobbing of them.  Now when these poor sun-burnt mariners, bare-footed, and
folded bulb of a bright red color.  Upon her head boards, in large gilt
for Ambergriese in the paunch of this Leviathan, insufferable fetor denying
for a time to become quite maimed; and, temporarily, Pip was put into his
for a time with wood.  After that no wood is used, except as a means of quick
for that dried up one, there, he hasn't a gill in his whole carcase.  I
for the pit.  By midnight the works were in full operation.  We were clear
foreseeing that all the oil they will get won't be enough to dip the Captain's
forth.  But Plowdon gives us the reason for it.  Says Plowdon, the whale so
forty-barrel-bulls, as they call them, are by far the most pugnacious of all
forward nigh the windlass, pretty sure am I that you would have scanned with
forward, and in a loud voice commanded his crew to desist from hoisting the
foundation does not penetrate the deck, but the masonry is firmly secured to
free from all ill-will, or petulence, or malice, of any sort whatsoever.
freshness and genuineness, even as the traveller on the prairie hunts up his
from Stubb; and as for Stubb, he was to utter any nonsense that should come
from a South Sea Sperm Whaler; which in a voyage of four years perhaps,
from me he's a baboon.
from out the very heart of this plague, there stole a faint stream of
from starvation; what is that ruinous discount but a Fast-Fish?  What is the
from the Sovereign.  We must needs inquire then on what principle the Sovereign
from the carcase; sail had been made; the wind was freshening; the wild
from the whale, the white-horse is first cut into portable oblongs ere going
from the whale.  When the proper time arrives for cutting up its contents,
fundamentals of all human jurisprudence; For notwithstanding its complicated
furled sails betokened that some sort of whale must be alongside.  As we
furnaces, directly underneath the pots.  These mouths are fitted with heavy
gaff is something like a boat-hook.  With his gaff, the gaffman hooks on to a
gentleman's property, along with whatever harpoon might have been found
get some fresh air.  Some thinking they would catch the plague, dipped oakum
gets from poor Woebegone, the bankrupt, on a loan to keep Woebegone's family
getting nothing at all for our pains but our blisters?  It is his.  Is the
getting the heavy tackles in readiness for the whales.  But they worked rather
gives it a good stretching, so as almost to double its diameter; and at last
glided nearer, the stranger showed French colors from his peak; and by the
gliding so serenely along; as I bathed my hands among those soft, gentle
globules of infiltrated tissues, woven almost within the hour; as they richly
gloom, now and then made ghastly by flashes of redness.  Uppermost was the
glow; yet, when the cunning jeweller would show you the diamond in its most
go back for a moment.  It was about nine o'clock at night that the Pequod's
gold-hunters.  And all the time numberless fowls were diving, and ducking, and
golden, glad sun, the only true lamp --all others but liars!  Nevertheless the
good ale with their cronies, upon the strength of their respective shares;
gorges, and soar out of them again and become invisible in the sunny spaces.
grapes their wine; as I snuffed up that uncontaminated aroma, --literally and
great try-pots, two in number, and each of several barrels' capacity.  When
had cooled and crystallized to such a degree, that when, with several others,
had succeeded in harpooning the fish; they were at last, through peril of
hair-powders, and pomatum.  The Turks use it in cooking, and also carry it to
hands into a trumpet and shouted -- No, Sir!  No!  Upon which Ahab retired,
hangs it, well spread, in the
harpooneers wildly gesticulated with their huge pronged forks and dippers; as
harpoons, and boat, which had remained attached to the whale at the time of
hatch, removed from the top of the works, now afforded a wide hearth in front
hath more of joy than sorrow in him, that mortal man cannot be true --not true,
have provided a system which for terse comprehensiveness surpasses Justinian's
have tasted, supposing him to have been killed the first day after the venison
have ye seen him?  Never heard of such a whale.  Cachalot Blanche!  White
he is chased over the watery moors, and slaughtered in the valleys of the
he should give undiluted conscientious advice to Pip, he would be leaving him
he stands on will sometimes irresistibly slide away from him, like a sledge.
he supposed, no doubt, that they would of course come up to Pip very quickly,
headed over, end for end, and sometimes perilously scoot across the slippery
heaps; and among the joyous, heartless, ever-juvenile eternities, Pip saw the
heart of the learned gentleman with the copy of Blackstone.  At length one of
heat of the fire, till their eyes felt scorched in their heads.  Their tawny
heaven without any of Savesoul's help) what is that globular 100,000 but a
her own.  Now, in the whale ship, it is not every one that goes in the boats.
her, and destroyed the idol, and burnt it for an abomination at the brook
hermetically closed, like a closet walled up.  In the sperm fishery, this is
higher than other birds upon the plain, even though they soar.
him, while employed in the peculiar functions of his office.  That office
his benevolence.  But we are all in the hands of the Gods; and Pip jumped
his cabin to drink a bottle of Bordeaux.  He wants you to take a glass of wine
his chest and neck.  Tashtego stood in the bows.  He was full of the fire of
his intellects, Pip, though over tender-hearted, was at bottom very bright,
hissing masses of blubber into the scalding pots, or stirred up the fires
hoisting operations previously detailed, were regularly gone through, even to
hold it on.  Fine day, aint it?  Air rather gardenny, I should say; throw us
home to Holland for that purpose.  It was a collection of furnaces,
honest clergyman of the town respectfully addressed a note to his Grace,
huge drooping stalk, was painted green, and for thorns had copper spikes
hundred and sixty-five Fourth of Julys and New Year's Days.  Nor smile so,
hunters in all similar instances; and such instances not unfrequently occur;
idol of Queequeg.  And an idol, indeed, it is; or, rather, in old times, its
if there happen to be an unduly slender, clumsy, or timorous wight in the
ignition to the staple fuel.  In a word, after being tried out, the crisp,
ill-humor or envy!  Come; let us squeeze hands all round; nay, let us all
illuminated every lofty rope in the rigging, as with the famed Greek fire.
impression, that whatever swift, rushing thing I stood on was not so much
impressive lustre, he lays it against a gloomy ground, and then lights it
in allaying the heat of anger: while bathing in that bath, I felt divinely
in coal-tar, and at intervals held it to their nostrils.  Others having
in dishonor, but raised in glory.  And likewise call to mind that saying of
in fobbing his perquisites; which are his chiefly by virtue of that same
in former times, of a Dutch village called Schmerenburgh or Smeerenberg,
in high excitement, eagerly helping their chief, and looking as anxious as
in set terms decided, to wit, --That as for the boat, he awarded it to the
in some enchanted way, inverted.  My God!  what is the matter with me?  thought
in such matters.  But why should the King have the head, and the Queen the
in the sequel of the narrative, it will then be seen what like abandonment
in this case the alleged right of the Duke to the whale was a delegated one
incidentally used by the sperm fishermen.  It designates the dark, glutinous
increased his distance, while the Pequod slid in between him and Stubb's
indeed can the whale possibly be otherwise than fragrant, when, as a general
indeed is it regarded by some, that no cupidity could persuade them to moor
insanity came over me; and I found myself unwittingly squeezing my
insanity is heaven's sense; and wandering from all mortal reason, man comes
insignificant of the Pequod's crew; an event most lamentable; and which
instituted an action to recover possession of her.  Erskine was on the other
internationally and universally applicable.  What was America in
interpreter's office, was to tell the Captain what he pleased, but as coming
into each other; let us squeeze ourselves universally into the very milk and
involuntary consternation of the moment caused him to leap, paddle in hand,
is a Catskill eagle in some souls that can alike dive down into the blackest
is a short firm strip of tendinous stuff cut from the tapering part of
is content too with scraping the dry bones of that other precious fish he has
is never found except upon the sea.  Besides, amber is a hard, transparent,
is originally invested with that right.  The law itself has already been set
is the term bestowed upon certain fragmentary parts of the whale's flesh, here
is to this day in force in England; and as it offers in various respects a
issuing from their midnight harbors, with broad sheets of flame for sails,
it for his royal master and mistress?  What was Poland to the Czar?  What
it is of a hue between yellow and ash color.  And this, good friends, is
it.  Arrived then at this spot, with one hand still to his nose, he bawled
its brilliancy; behold yon lustrous ebony, panelled in king's cabinets.  But
its redness makes all things look ghastly.  To-morrow, in the natural sun,
its unmanufactured, and, therefore, unvitiated state; a fluid unknown to
itself to the deck, by means of a shallow reservoir extending under the entire
jeopardized through their own timidity, is not always manifested by the
keep cool--cool?  yes, that's the word; why don't you pack those whales in ice
kindred doctrine of Loose-Fish is still more widely so.  That is
kingdoms, on all hands coercing alms of beggars?  It will readily be seen that
know that well enough; but, d'ye see, the Captain here won't believe it;
lamps flashing upon his hooded eyes.  In merchantmen, oil for the sailor is
last begat kindred visions in my soul, so soon as I began to yield to that
laws and regulations of the whale fishery, of which the waif may be deemed
leaning over the quarter-deck rail awaiting his report, he moulded his two
leap into their faces.  Opposite the mouth of the works, on the further side
learned.  Though the word ambergris is but the French compound for grey amber,
leaving their defunct bodies almost entirely bankrupt of anything like oil.
length his spade struck against the gaunt ribs, it was like turning up old
letters, he read Bouton de Rose, --Rose-button, or Rose-bud; and this was
like the flames from the furnace; as to and fro, in their front, the
likeness was.  Such an idol as that found in the secret groves of Queen
litigated in England, wherein the plaintiffs set forth that after a hard
livelihood?  It is his.  I thought to relieve my old bed-ridden mother by
living and ever accompanying prophecy of whatever shattered sequel might prove
looked, Do, for God's sake!  All passed in a flash.  In less than half a
loom, and spoke it; and therefore his shipmates called him mad.  So man's
loose-fish, in which Columbus struck the Spanish standard by way of waifing
magic, allures along with it all impurities.  But to learn all about these
main-mast, the most roomy part of the deck.  The timbers beneath are of a
man for a sea-captain, with large whiskers and moustache, however; and wore
man in each pot, side by side --many confidential communications are carried
man looking at this decision of the very learned Judge, might possibly object
mariners into full consideration.  To which my Lord Duke in substance replied
masonry of that side is exposed, penetrated by the two iron mouths of the
means creatures of ill odor; nor can whalemen be recognised, as the people of
meditation.  It was in the left hand try-pot of the Pequod, with the
mentioned as the receptacle for the blanket-pieces, when stript and hoisted
might be considered as indirectly substantiated by what has been said of the
might be sailors' trousers buttons; but it afterwards turned out that they
mincer now stands before you invested in the full canonicals of his calling.
minute, this entire thing happened.  Damn him, cut!  roared Stubb; and so
minute.  Then rapidly pulling back towards the Pequod, and seeing Ahab
mollifier!  After having my hands in it for only a few minutes, my fingers
money, and would be obliged to the reverend gentleman if for the future he
monomaniac commander's soul.  So seemed it to me, as I stood at her helm,
moon.  The sun hides not the ocean, which is the dark side of this earth,
more deadly than the blasted one; in fine, Monsieur, he conjures us, as we
more fit to command a whale-ship than a St.  Jago monkey.  In fact, tell him
more scarce than the milk of queens.  To dress in the dark, and eat in the
motion of a Sperm Whale's flukes above water dispenses a perfume, as when a
mountains; so that even in his lowest swoop the mountain eagle is still
mouth, Possession is half of the law: that is, regardless of how the thing
much of which covers the decks of those inferior souls who hunt that ignoble
multitudinous, God-omnipresent, coral insects, that out of the firmament of
musk-scented lady rustles her dress in a warm parlor.  What then shall I liken
my soapstone for example, will descend from any point in precisely the same
narrated to each other their unholy adventures, their tales of terror told in
negro went about the deck an idiot; such, at least, they said he was.  The
night the ship's black hull still houses an illumination.  See with what
no external chimneys; they open direct from the rear wall.  And here let us
no small curiosity a very strange, enigmatical object, which you would have
not got hold of unchristian Solomon's wisdom yet.  But he who dodges hospitals
not in use, they are kept remarkably clean.  Sometimes they are polished
not inquiry.  Sir T. Browne, V. E.  It was a week or two after the last
not only that, but you must live in it for the time.  It has an unspeakable,
not the miracle of his symmetrical tail; none of these would so surprise you,
ocean darkness was intense.  But that darkness was licked up by the fierce
of babyish to me, though I don't pretend to be a judge.  He says, Monsieur,
of citron.  Spite of reason, it is hard to keep yourself from eating it.  I
of difference between the male and female schools is still more characteristic
of doors; though, it is true, seldom in the open air.  I say, that the
of it, towards the pointed extremity, and then cutting two slits for
of something that looked like ripe Windsor soap, or rich mottled old cheese;
of the Greenland or Right whale was largely used in ladies' bodices.  But this
of the crown's ordinary revenue.  I know not that any other author has hinted
of the dead.  Give not thyself up, then, to fire, lest it invert thee,
of the great stress of her plunging viciousness, had as last abandoned her;
of the matter; but by inference it seems to me that the sturgeon must be
of the sea, poor Pip turned his crisp, curling, black head to the sun,
of the sexes.  Say you strike a Forty-barrel-bull --poor devil!  all his
of the whale and the lady were reciprocally illustrative of each other.  These
of the wide wooden hearth, was the windlass.  This served for a sea-sofa.
of their whale, line, harpoons, and boat.  Mr. Erskine was counsel for the
of them.  Standing on this were the Tartarean shapes of the pagan harpooneers,
of understanding shall remain ( i.  e.  even while living) in the congregation
off for the stranger.  Drawing across her bow, he perceived that in accordance
oil is nearly scentless.  The truth is, that living or dead, if but decently
on the sea-coast, is also dug up in some far inland soils, whereas ambergris
on, over the iron lips.  It is a place also for profound mathematical
one star-belled tambourine.  So, though in the clear air of day, suspended
oozy, stringy affair, most frequently found in the tubs of sperm, after a
operas than hell; calls Cowper, Young, Pascal, Rousseau, poor devils all of
or undeveloped.  With books the same.  The truest of all men was the Man of
originally harpooned the lady, and had once had her fast, and only by reason
ornaments; but ambergris is soft, waxy, and so highly fragrant and spicy,
ostentatiously put on the aspect of interpreting between them.  What shall I
our old man has thought of that.  It's worth trying.  Yes, I'm for it; and
out a most unusually long tow-line.  Presently a breeze sprang up; Stubb
out of the boat; and in such a way, that part of the slack whale line coming
outrageous moral injustice for one party to claim possession of a whale
oversee the business.  All ready there?  Off hatch, then, and start her.  You
own smoke!  for his smoke is horrible to inhale, and inhale it you must, and
own supper of game.
panic-striking business in which he had somehow unaccountably become
paracelsus about what it is that maketh the best musk.  Also forget not the
part of my share of this whale.  It is his.  Won't the Duke be content
part of the description by rehearsing --singing, if I may -- the romantic
parties (meaning himself and mate) and concluded by inviting Stubb down into
peculiar strength, fitted to sustain the weight of an almost solid mass of
pelt of a boa.  This done he turns the pelt inside out, like a pantaloon leg;
perfume, which flowed through the tide of bad smells without being absorbed
perhaps improving it in quality.
perhaps, might have been secured were it not for impatient Ahab's loud command
peril, and some expense, and is all that to go to the Duke's benefit; we
perpendicularly chopping it into the portable horse-pieces.  This spade is
place.  The first time Stubb lowered with him, Pip evinced much nervousness;
plague, when the living are incompetent to bury the departed.  So intolerable
plain, business-like, but still half humorous manner, cursed Pip officially;
plaintiffs, because they had merely abandoned it to save their lives; but
pleadings, and the counter pleadings, being duly heard, the very learned judge
policeman or beadle, called a Lord Warden.  Holding the office directly from
ponderous knees of iron bracing it on all sides, and screwing it down to the
poor little negro was assailed by yells and execrations from the crew.
possibly be humorously grounded upon some presumed congeniality.  And thus
precious oil and bone; and in fantasy sipping rare tea with their wives, and
precise origin of ambergris remained, like amber itself, a problem to the
present of a little oil for dear charity's sake.  For what oil he'll get from
presto!  poor Pip came all foaming up to the chocks of the boat,
previously chased or killed by another party.  But others are by no means so
principle which entitled the headsman of old to the garments in which the
principles laid down in the twin whaling laws previously quoted, and applied
proceeding of decanting off his oil into the casks and striking them down into
proceeds cylindrically to remove its dark pelt, as an African hunter the
projecting from it here and there; the whole terminating in a symmetrical
prolonged squeezing, and subsequent decanting.  I hold it to be the
prompts the English railways to be at the expense of a separate car, specially
proof of the fact that the above-mentioned law is still in force, I proceed to
property under certain limitations, and nominally supplying the tenth branch
purchased, was duly brought to the Pequod's side, where all those cutting and
purse!  Dropping his spade, he thrust both hands in, and drew out handfuls
putting my fingers to the lids and mechanically stretching them still further
pyres.  It smells like the left wing of the day of judgment; it is an argument
quality, and by no means of the nature of attar-of-rose.  Coming still nearer
rapacious landlord is the widow's last mite but a Fast-Fish?  What is yonder
reap the fruit of his unrighteous cunning.  Seizing his sharp boat-spade, he
recondite matters, your best way is at once to descend into the blubber-room,
redness, the madness, the ghastliness of others.  The continual sight of the
rejoined Stubb, and with that he soon mounted to the deck.  There a queer
related how the great leviathan is afar off descried from the mast-head; how
remorselessly dragged there by the line, which had taken several turns around
reserved for the accommodation of royalty.  In the first place, in curious
reservoir is kept replenished with water as fast as it evaporates.  There are
rest, blame not Stubb too hardly.  The thing is common in that fishery; and
returned to them.  Why, let me see; yes, you may as well tell him now that --
revealed in the capricious emblazonings of the works.  As they
rich, mottled tint, with a bestreaked snowy and golden ground, dotted with
ride in a spring-carriage ashore.  But the awful lonesomeness is intolerable.
rigging, to dry.  Ere long, it is taken down; when removing some three feet
rose-bud, eh?  he cried with his hand to his nose, that will do very well;
round, to the horizon, like gold-beater's skin hammered out to the extremest.
rudimental manufacturing stages, is the worst.  I should like to conclude the
ruthless detestation peculiar to military navies and armies.
said that in a whaling voyage the first fire in the try-works has to be fed
sailors, had all died of a fever caught from a blasted whale they had brought
same bone is not in the tail; it is in the head, which is a sad mistake for
say to him first?  said he.  Why, said Stubb, eyeing the velvet vest and the
says -- Hands off!  this fish, my masters, is a Fast-Fish.  I seize it as the
scene presented itself.  The sailors, in tasselled caps of red worsted, were
schools are larger than the harem schools.  Like a mob of young collegians,
screaming, and yelling, and fighting around them.  Stubb was beginning to look
scrupulous.  Some fifty years ago there was a curious case of whale-trover
sea had jeeringly kept his finite body up, but drowned the infinite of his
season, and that particular venison season contemporary with an unusually
seem
seems that some honest mariners of Dover, or Sandwich, or some one of the
seen there, lying along lengthwise in the lee scuppers.  Not the wondrous
seen, what was thus temporarily subdued in him, in the end was destined to
separately go about in quest of settlements, that is, harems.  Another point
service to us.  Hearing this, the captain vowed that they were the grateful
sharp as hone can make it; the spademan's feet are shoeless; the thing
sheath, he suspended its sharp edge over the line, and turning towards Stubb,
sheet of blubber, and strives to hold it from slipping, as the ship pitches
ship's stern, with my back to her prow and the compass.  In an instant I faced
ship, that wight is certain to be made a ship-keeper.  It was so in the
ship-keepers are as hardy fellows as the men comprising the boats' crews.  But
ships in London, more than two centuries ago.  Because those whalemen did not
shortness of the season in those Icy Seas, and the sudden and violent storms
should we longer cherish any social acerbities, or know the slightest
shrivelled
sick men; and throughout a care-free lifetime swears by Rabelais as passing
side, and getting into his boat, hailed the Guernsey-man to this effect,
side, lit by a dull lantern, a space has been left clear for the workmen.
side; and he then supported it by saying, that though the gentleman had
sides.  But had Stubb really abandoned the poor little negro to his fate?  No;
sinecure.  But not so.  Because the Lord Warden is busily employed at times
sir, who is the Lord Warden?  The Duke.  But the duke had nothing to do
six-barrel casks; and while, perhaps, the ship is pitching and rolling this
slices as possible, inasmuch as by so doing the business of boiling out the
sliding along beneath the surface as before; but, alas!  never more to rise
slightest suspicion concerning the ambergris.  He therefore held his peace on
slow and talked very fast, and seemed in anything but a good humor.  All
small are they.  I. A Fast-Fish belongs to the party fast to it.  II.  A
so near her and so long, as themselves to fall a prey.
so saying he started for the quarter-deck.  By this time the faint air had
so styled by the English law writers -- the whale and the sturgeon; both royal
soapstone diligently circling round me, that I was first indirectly struck by
solar, lunar, or astral contrivances ashore.  It is sweet as early grass
sold, and his Grace the Duke of Wellington received the money.  Thinking that
some illuminated shrine of canonized kings and counsellors.  There they lay in
some small degree be deemed, under the circumstances, a rather hard one, an
somebody else.  He says, Monsieur, that he's very happy to have been of any
something worth a good deal more than oil; yes, ambergris.  I wonder now if
soon as filled with the sperm; and when the proper time arrived, this same
soul.  Not drowned entirely, though.  Rather carried down alive to wondrous
sperm of kindness.  Would that I could keep squeezing that sperm for ever!  For
sperm was carefully manipulated ere going to the try-works, of which anon.  It
spots of the deepest crimson and purple.  It is plums of rubies, in pictures
squeeze ourselves
starboard side, and thus come close to the blasted whale; and so talk over
steady binnacle lamp illuminating it.  Nothing seemed before me but a jet
sticking in her.  Now in the present case Erskine contended that the examples
strange anomaly touching the general law of Fast and Loose-Fish, it is here
strange fact that of all things of ill-savor, Cologne-water, in its
stranger.  But that did in nowise mend the matter, or at all soften the hard
stricken whale started on a fierce run, the line swiftly straightened; and
struck, killed, seized, and finally appropriated it before the very eyes of
subject.  for at that time, and indeed until a comparatively late day, the
substance which is scraped off the back of the Greenland or right whale, and
substance, and so important as an article of commerce, that in
sun hides not Virginia's Dismal Swamp, nor Rome's accursed Campagna, nor wide
supplies his own fuel and burns by his own body.  Would that he consumed his
symbol of possession; so long as the party waifing it plainly evince their
tail?  A reason for that, ye lawyers!  In his treatise on Queen-Gold, or
tall, nigh a foot in diameter at the base, and jet-black as Yojo, the ebony
tell him that now I have eyed him carefully, I'm quite certain that he's no
tendons --a wad of muscle --but still contains some oil.  After being severed
territories become by assignment his.  By some writers this office is called a
that --in fact, tell him I've diddled him, and (aside to himself) perhaps
that Stubb vowed he recognized his cutting spade-pole entangled in the lines
that arising from excavating an old city grave-yard, for the foundations of
that blackness of darkness, seemed the material counterpart of her
that bundle of bones; though, now that I think of it, it may contain
that but a Fast-Fish?  What is the ruinous discount which Mordecai, the broker,
that drugged whale there, wouldn't be fit to burn in a jail; no, not in a
that head, but otherwise was quite frank and confidential with him, so that
that inexpressible sperm, I washed my hands and my heart of it; I almost
that is content with our leavings, the drugged whale there, I mean; aye, and
that it is largely used in perfumery, in pastiles, precious candles,
that it is plainly traceable to the first arrival of the Greenland whaling
that of Holland.  It was decreed by the States-General in A. D.
that upon breaking into the hold, and unloading one of these whale
that were knotted round the tail of one of these whales.  There's a pretty
that with regard to the controverted whale, harpoons, and line, they belonged
the Captain, without his at all dreaming of distrusting their sincerity.
the Frenchman's boats, then, were engaged in towing the ship one way, Stubb
the King of Hell.  But let us to the story.  It came to pass, that in the
the Sperm Whale to for fragrance, considering his magnitude?  Must it not be
the United States?  All Loose-Fish.  What are the Rights of Man and the
the blubber of the dutch whale fleet to be tried out, without being taken
the completed ship.  it is as if from the open field a brick-kiln were
the contrasting barbaric brilliancy of their teeth, all these were strangely
the country; now that I have perceived all this, I am ready to squeeze case
the crown, I believe, all the royal emoluments incident to the Cinque Port
the day, had betaken himself to the Captain's round-house ( cabinet he
the effect, of the dyspepsia in the whale.  How to cure such a dyspepsia it
the fact that the oil obtained from such subjects is of a very inferior
the first hint of the hitching tiller; believe not the artificial fire, when
the grand symbol and badge.  It frequently happens that when several ships are
the heart of such decay; is this nothing?  Bethink thee of that saying of St.
the hold, where once again leviathan returns to his native profundities,
the hunt.  He hated Pip for a poltroon.  Snatching the boat-knife from its
the last pint is casked, and all is cool, then the great hatchways are
the law?  But if the doctrine of Fast-Fish be pretty generally applicable, the
the likeness of a
the middle ages affected to detect a Jew in the company, by the nose.  Nor
the mincer.  It enjoins him to be careful, and cut his work into as thin
the mischief with this masterly code is the
the open sea --mark how closely they hug their ship and only coast along her
the other day.  I thought they would keel up before long.  Presently, the
the plaintiffs.  And when those defendants were remonstrated with, their
the remarkable fact, that in geometry all bodies gliding along the cycloid,
the romantic name of this aromatic ship.  Though Stubb did not understand the
the sea and the night, and scornfully champed the white bone in her mouth,
the seas of life; but in the course of years, repenting of that step, he
the seizure.  Wherefore the plaintiffs now sued for the recovery of the value
the ship there was a pitch of the boiling oil, which seemed all eagerness to
the sinews and souls of Russian serfs and Republican slaves
the skies will be bright; those who glared like devils in the forking flames,
the surface by
the tail.  A division which, in the whale, is much like halving an apple;
the tiller, but with the crazy conceit that the tiller was, somehow,
the two quickly concocted a little plan for both circumventing and satirizing
the vessel while the boats are pursuing the whale.  As a general thing, these
the whale was lost and Pip was saved.  So soon as he recovered himself, the
the wind howled on, and the sea leaped, and the ship groaned and dived, and
the witty Erskine went on to illustrate his position, by alluding to a recent
their eyes sentimentally; as much as to say, --Oh!  my dear fellow beings, why
their fat fish high and dry, promising themselves a good 150 pounds from the
their final rest in the sea.  This done, the hatches are replaced, and
their heads all round;  meanwhile ruefully glancing from the whale to the
their hold full of boxes of tallow candles, and cases of snuffers,
their lives, obliged to forsake not only their lines, but their boat itself.
their noses upwardly projected from their faces like so many jib-booms.  Now
their triangular oaken vaults, each mariner a chiselled muteness; a score of
them by the feet.  The smoke rolled away in sullen heaps.  To every pitch of
them there, as mugs of ale at a vat.  He burns, too, the purest of oil, in
them, after long scratching about for his ideas, made bold to speak.  Please,
them, by pulling out the lighter whale of the two from the ship's side.  While
them, it (the fish) acquired a property in those articles; and hence anybody
themselves sometimes consist in hard words and harder knocks --the
themselves with an essence found in the inglorious bowels of a sick whale!
then, and do not now, try out their oil at sea as the Southern ships have
there at my ease, cross-legged on the deck; after the bitter exertion at the
there is no intermediate remainder.  Now as this law, under a modified form,
there seems a reason in all things, even in law.
there.  Poor devil!  I say, pass round a hat, some one, and let's make him a
therefore came off not altogether discreditably; though Stubb observing him,
they are full of fight, fun, and wickedness, tumbling round the world at such
thing occurred to me.  Starting from a brief standing sleep, I was horribly
thing, he enjoys such high health; taking abundance of exercise; always out
thinkers but Loose-Fish?  What is the great globe itself but a Loose-Fish?
this apartment is a scene of terror to all tyros, especially by night.  On one
this dirty scrape.  Anything to oblige ye, my sweet and pleasant fellow,
this is his first voyage; he was a Cologne manufacturer before.  But come
this latter duty, others were employed in dragging away the larger tubs, so
this time he did not breast out the line; and hence, when the whale started
this turbulence though, and when about three fourths grown, break up, and
those wondrous grey-headed, grizzled whales, sometimes met, and these will
though no other nation has ever had any written whaling law, yet the American
through the bung holes of large casks, and carry it home in that manner; the
through the fire; --but now it remains to conclude the last chapter of this
thrust from behind the door, which was held ajar from within.  This was the
thrusting his shavings into the furnace throughout the passage.  Here be it
timbers.  On the flanks it is cased with wood, and at top completely covered
time I lived as in a musky meadow; I forgot all about our horrible oath; in
time.  Removing the fire-board from the front of the try-works, the bare
to Stubb to desist, and come on board, else the ship would bid them good
to be the chief-mate.  Well, then, my Bouton-de-Rose-bud, have you seen the
to describe.  It is called slobgollion; an appellation original with the
to dry up and die with a sort of prodigious dyspepsia, or indigestion;
to exhort him to cherish his courageousness to the utmost, for he might often
to it.  But ploughed up to the primary rock of the matter, the two great
to lose whales by the likes of you; a whale would sell for thirty times what
to run, Pip was left behind on the sea, like a hurried traveller's trunk.
to shake in the wind; I thought my eyes were open; I was half conscious of
to ten times the natural lustre with which in his native Tolland County in
to that famous elephant, with jewelled tusks, and redolent with myrrh, which
to the mincer.  They look much like blocks of Berkshire marble.  Plum-pudding
to which they are exposed, forbidding any other course.  The consequence is,
tomb-stones, and break the green damp mould with unfathomably wondrous
too wide a margin to jump in for the future; Stubb suddenly dropped all
took care, afterwards,
tormented surgeon, who, after in vain remonstrating against the proceedings of
touching Fast-Fish and Loose-Fish, I say, will, on reflection, be found the
tows it alongside, without risk of life or line.  Thus the most vexatious and
tracery of sculpture, the Temple of the Law, like the Temple of the
transported to her planks.  The try-works are planted between the foremast and
treated of in a separate chapter, on the same courteous principle that
treated, whales as a species are by no
truly, like the smell of spring violets; I declare to you, that for the
try-works to the Pequod's forecastle, where the off duty watch were sleeping,
try-works were first started on this present voyage.  It belonged to Stubb to
two allies, heavily backs the grandissimus, as the mariners call it, and
unaccountable drowsiness which ever would come over me at a midnight helm.
unctuous properties.  These fritters feed the flames.  Like a plethoric
undetected villain's marble mansion with a door-plate for a waif; what is
unnatural hallucination of the night, and the fatal contingency of being
unsavory odor such a mass must exhale; worse than an Assyrian city in the
unsealed, the bowels of the ship are thrown open, and down go the casks to
untidy business.  But there is another thing to rebut.  They hint that all
up steps a very learned and most Christian and charitable gentleman, with a
up, not by the sun, but by some unnatural gases.  Then come out those fiery
upon them, for now, ex officio, every sailor is a cooper.  At length, when
uppermost in him during the interview.  By this time their destined victim
value our lives, to cut loose from these fish.  Instantly the captain ran
vapors in advance slid aside; and there in the distance lay a ship, whose
vapory, mid-day sea, that the many noses on the Pequod's deck proved more
very much astonished?  Toes are scarce among veteran blubber-room men.
very pleasant smell was smelt in the sea.  I will bet something now, said
very probably capsizing her.  How glad and how grateful the relief from this
very unctuous and savory withal.  You might easily dent it with your thumb;
viewed in some particular lights, the case might by a bare possibility in
vigilant discoverers than the three pairs of eyes aloft.  A peculiar and not
violent disputes would often arise between the fishermen, were there not some
vocabulary.  But as applied by whalemen, it becomes so.  A whaleman's nipper
want here?  roared the Guernsey-man, flying into a sudden passion.  Oh!
was led out of an Indian town to do honor to Alexander the Great?
was now so far away, and he and all his crew so intent upon his fish, that
was our business to squeeze these lumps back into fluid.  A sweet and unctuous
was, Never jump from a boat, Pip, except --but all the rest was indefinite,
watch and seals, you may as well begin by telling him that he looks a sort
waters heaved the colossal orbs.  He saw God's foot upon the treadle of the
way and that in the midnight sea, the enormous casks are slewed round and
way of doxology to the deed he had done, he would now retain their line,
weather, to swim in the open ocean is as easy to the practised swimmer as to
were hard to say, unless by administering three or four boat loads of
were nothing more than pieces of small squid bones embalmed in that manner.
were obtained; but more was unavoidably lost in the sea, and still more,
whale which they had originally descried afar off from the shore.  Now the
whale.  Whereupon Stubb quickly pulled to the floating body,
whale; and as the fish received the darted iron, it gave its customary rap,
whalemen allowances are always made for peculiar cases, where it would be an
whalemen, and even so is the nature of the substance.  It is an ineffably
whaler is outwardly distinguished by her try-works.  She presents the curious
whalers may be likewise imputed to the existence on the coast of Greenland,
whales always smell bad.  Now how did this odious stigma originate?  I opine,
whales close to them on one side, turned, and gave chase; and Stubb's boat
whales to the ship.  What now?  said the Guernsey-man, when the captain had
whales, for it's so calm they won't drift.  By this time Stubb was over the
whaling scene recounted, and when we were slowly sailing over a sleepy,
whaling-pike is similar to a frigate's boarding-weapon of the same name.  The
what are you holding yours for?  Oh, nothing!  It's a wax nose; I have to
which ever enjoy all holidays and festivities with finer, freer relish than
which happened, in this instance, to be right under poor Pip's seat.  The
which is conducted at a curious wooden horse, planted endwise against the
which latter name is the one used by the learned Fogo Von Slack, in his great
which leaned against it; in my ears was the low hum of sails, just beginning
while I write that this little black was brilliant, for even blackness has
while you're working at 'em?  But joking aside, though; do you know,
white one, of equal developments, though of dissimilar color, driven in one
white-horse, so called, which is obtained from the tapering part of the fish,
who afterwards took the fish had a right to them.  Now the defendants
who had just got into the chains, and was using a cutting-spade, had slung his
whole mile of shoreless ocean was between Pip and Stubb.  Out from the centre
wick into; aye, we all know these things; but look ye, here's a Crappo
wife's viciousness, had at last abandoned her upon
wild, Hindoo odor about it, such as may lurk in the vicinity of funereal
windlass; under a blue tranquil sky; the ship under indolent sail, and
wise, and therefore jolly; --not that man is fitted to sit down on
with a quarter or a half?  It is his.  In a word, the whale was seized and
with a tail?  An allegorical meaning may lurk here.  There are two royal fish
with bowed shoulders, staggers off with it as if he were a grenadier carrying
with him, said the interpreter.  Thank him heartily; but tell him it's
with savages, and laden with fire, and burning a corpse, and plunging into
with soapstone and sand, till they shine within like silver punch-bowls.
with taking this fish?  It is his.  We have been at great trouble, and
with that pleasant, genial, jolly brightness peculiar to his tribe; a tribe,
with the expiring breeze, we saw that the Frenchman had a second whale
with the fanciful French taste, the upper part of her stem-piece was carved in
with their trowsers rolled high up on their eely legs, had wearily hauled
with ye whalebone.  Now this was written at a time when the black limber bone
wondrously thin, ruptured membranes of the case, coalescing.  Gurry, so
words of mirth; as their uncivilized laughter forked upwards out of them,
work on Smells, a textbook on that subject.  As its name imports (smeer, fat;
would think, then, that such fine ladies and gentlemen should regale
written or unwritten, universal, undisputed law applicable to all cases.
yesterday his ship spoke a vessel, whose captain and chief-mate, with six
yet abandon her he did, so that she became a loose-fish; and therefore when
yet man is a money-making animal, which propensity too often interferes with
you would, Pip, in Alabama.  Bear that in mind, and don't jump any more.
your true motto in whaling; but cases will sometimes happen when Leap
