
















































    
     And I, you, and he; and we, ye, and they, are all bats; and I'm a crow,
     But Fedallah, putting a finger on his lip, slid over the bulwarks
     Drinking hot rum toddies with me every night, till he couldn't see to put on
     ENDERBY, OF LONDON Ship, ahoy!  Hast seen the White Whale?  So cried Ahab,
     Ere now it has been related how Ahab was
     Ere the English ship fades from sight, be
     Friends, hold my arms!  For in the mere act of penning my thoughts of this
     From his mighty bulk the whale
     Hitherto, in descriptively
     In the first
     Inasmuch, then, as this Leviathan comes floundering down upon us from the
     Stood our old Sammy off to the northward, to get out of the blazing hot
     Syren --made a noble experimental cruise; and it was thus that the great
     Then the whole world was the whale's; and, king of creation, he left his
     There's something ever egotistical in mountain-tops and towers, and all
     Think you I let that chance go, without using my boat-hatchet and
     To begin: there's Aries, or the Ram --lecherous dog, he begets us; then,
     and at two cents the cigar, that's nine hundred and
     and there it stayed for a twelvemonth or more; when I gave him an emetic,
     but of the whales found in that
     clever things of that sort.  But I may as well say --en passant, as the French
     desperate.  Ha, ha!  old Ahab!  the White Whale; he'll nail ye!  This is a
     elaborate history of whales, in the very beginning of his work (page 3),
     float from forth the loom; the freshet-rushing carpet for ever slides away.
     flukes, an utter blank!  How vain and foolish, then, thought I, for timid
     found something there in the vicinity of his thigh --I guess it's Sagittarius,
     from which list, as translated by Dr.  Snodhead.  I transcribe the following: 0084400,000 lbs.  of beef. 60,000 lbs.  Friesland pork. 150,000 lbs.  of stock fish.
     get loose, or the tooth it was tangled to might draw (for I have
     give him your left arm for bait to get the right.  Do you know, gentlemen
     glimpses into those Polar eternities; when wedged bastions of ice pressed
     here they are --here they go --all alive: --Aries, or the Ram; Taurus, or the
     hundred feet in length --Rope Walks and Thames Tunnels of Whales!  And even in
     it last.  For it was set apart and sanctified to one awe-striking end; and
     oil, and bone, and blubber, were little short of audacity.  They know not the
     or any token of ever having been a wound -- Well, the captain there will tell
     rowing on the Line, --they only step to the deck to carry vast chains, and
     so variously repeated in this book, that the skeleton of the whale is by no
     that is, Virtue and Vice; we try to reach Virtue, when lo!  comes Cancer
     that the skeleton of the whale furnishes but little clue to the shape of his
     the bright sun meets our glance half way, to cheer.  Yet, oh, the great sun
     the first harpoon, let this old great-grandfather have it.  But, Lord, look
     there.
     was
     weighed and found wanting; and while we are very sad about that, Lord!  how
     which measured eight feet and some inches.  From that part, the remaining
     wonderful devices, chiselled shells, inlaid spears, costly paddles,
 20,000 lbs.  of Texel and Leyden cheese. 144,000 lbs.  cheese (probably an
 550,000 lbs.  of biscuit. 72,000 lbs.  of soft bread. 2,800 firkins of butter.
(reydan-siskur, or Wrinkled Bellies) at one hundred and twenty yards; that
) it fitted out the first English
) our valiant Coffins and Maceys of Nantucket
, a fine ship, the
, on the
, the same house fitted out a discovery whale ship of their own, to go on
, this great whaling house was in existence, my numerous fish-documents
--Mounttop; Mounttop--the captain); --as I was saying, I jumped into Mounttop's
--as some call him --and then I knew it was he.  Did'st thou cross his wake
--avast heaving there!  Jump, boys, and swing over the cutting-tackle.  As
--fire worshipper, depend upon it.  Ho!  more and more.  This way comes Pip
--not all though --were such famous, hospitable ships; that passed round the
--poor boy!  would he had died, or I; he's half horrible to me.  He too has
--spread out his ribs like a gigantic fan --and swing all day upon his lower
--the whale's tail looming straight up out of it, perpendicular in the air,
--very gravely and mathematically bowing to each Captain in succession -- Do
.  But
.. < chapter c 2  LEG AND ARM THE PEQUOD, OF NANTUCKET, MEETS THE SAMUEL >
.. < chapter ci 10  THE DECANTER >
.. < chapter cii 2  A BOWER IN THE ARSACIDES >
.. < chapter ciii 10  MEASUREMENT OF THE WHALE'S SKELETON >
.. < chapter civ 30  THE FOSSIL WHALE >
.. < chapter cv 24 DOES THE WHALE'S MAGNITUDE DIMINISH? WILL HE PERISH? >
.. < chapter xcix 30  THE DOUBLOON >
.. <p 425 >
.. <p 426 >
.. <p 426 >
.. <p 427 >
.. <p 428 >
.. <p 429 >
.. <p 430 >
.. <p 431 >
.. <p 432 >
.. <p 433 >
.. <p 434 >
.. <p 435 >
.. <p 436 >
.. <p 437 >
.. <p 438 >
.. <p 439 >
.. <p 440 >
.. <p 440 >
.. <p 441 >
.. <p 442 >
.. <p 443 >
.. <p 444 >
.. <p 445 >
.. <p 446 >
.. <p 447 >
.. <p 448 >
.. <p 449 >
.. <p 449 >
.. <p 450 >
.. <p 451 >
.. <p 451 >
.. <p 452 >
.. <p 453 >
.. <p 454 >
.. <p 455 >
.. <p 455 >
.. <p 456 >
.. <p 457 >
A significant illustration of the fact, again and again repeated in this book,
Ahab.  And in the present instance, all this was heightened by the sight of
Amelia, fitted out for the express purpose, and at the sole charge of the
And as for my exact knowledge of the bones of the leviathan in their gigantic,
Archer, is amusing himself.  As we pluck out the shafts, stand aside; here's
Attached to this back-bone, for something less than a third of its length,
Basilosaurus.  But some specimen bones of it being taken across the sea to
Before this equatorial coin, Ahab, not unobserved by others, was now pausing.
Bull and Jimimi!  here's Gemini himself, or the Twins.  Well; the sun he
Bunger. (Bunger, you dog, laugh out!  why don't ye?  You know you're a
But I had no hand in shipping that ivory arm there; that thing is against all
But by far the most wonderful of all cetacean relics was the almost complete
But here a curious difficulty presented itself.  In the excitement of the
But when Leviathan is the text, the case is altered.  Fain am I to stagger to
Can you land a full-grown whale on your deck for examination, as a cook
Cannibal?  As I live he's comparing notes; looking at his thigh bone; thinks
Captain Boomer here, stood our old Sammy-- Samuel Enderby is the name of
Captain Boomer's facetious interruption, that spite of my best and severest
Commanded by a naval Post-Captain, the Rattler made a rattling voyage of it,
Cutting me a green measuring-rod, I once more dived within the skeleton.
Dick doesn't bite so much as he swallows.  Well, then, interrupted Bunger,
Dr.  Snodhead, so soon as he spied the book, assured me that Dan Coopman did
Enderby was a jolly ship; of good fare and plenty; fine flip and strong;
Englishman.  I was ignorant of the White Whale at that time.  Well, one day
Englishmen.  Oh!  cried the one-armed captain, Oh, yes!  Well; after he
Epitome calls the zodiac, and what my almanack below calls ditto.  I'll get
Fossil Whales, I present my credentials as a geologist, by stating that in my
From their arrow-slit in the skull, the priests perceived me taking the
Glen; the trees stood high and haughty, feeling their living sap; the
Greece, two thousand years ago, did die, so good, so wise, so mild; I
Hook, I'd not look at it very long ere spending it.  Humph!  in my poor,
I can stand the rest, for they have plain wits; but he's too crazy-witty
I didn't then know what whale it was that had served me such a trick, till
I jumped into my first mate's boat --Mr. Mounttop's here (by the way, Captain
I may as well, said the surgeon, coolly.  I was about observing, sir, before
I shall now simply point out what is most interesting in the general bulk of
Ishmael; but have a care how you seize the privilege of Jonah alone; the
Japanese Whaling Ground first became generally known.  The Syren in this
John Leo, the old Barbary traveller.  Not far from the Sea-side, they have a
Leviathan, it behoves me to approve myself omnisciently exhaustive in the
Leviathan, they weary me, and make me faint with their out-reaching
Leviathans, their incalculable seniors; I am, by a flood, borne back to that
Likewise, by way of preliminary, I desire to remind the reader, that while
Lion, lies in the path --he gives a few fierce bites and surly dabs with his
Nor must there be omitted another strange attestation of the antiquity of the
North and South Atlantic: not elsewhere.  Be it distinctly recorded here,
Oh!  my friends, but this is man-killing!  Yet this is life.  For hardly have
One day the planks stream with freshets of blood and oil; on the sacred
Pacific were thrown open.  But not content with this good deed, the
People imagine, that by a secret Power bestowed by God upon the Temple, no
Pharaoh's.  Methuselah seems a school-boy.  I look round to shake hands with
Popayan; with plenty of gold moidores and pistoles, and joes, and half joes,
Rib of an incredible length for a Miracle, which lying upon the Ground with
Samuel Enderby, merchant of that city, the original of the famous whaling
Scotland, and in the States of Louisiana, Mississippi, and Alabama.  Among the
Seas, on the very coasts of that Esquimaux country where the convivial
Seeing how matters stood, and what a noble great whale it was --the noblest
Shem.  I am horror-struck at this antemosaic, unsourced existence of the
Sir Clifford thinks of charging twopence for a peep at the whispering gallery
Snodhead, a very learned man, professor of Low Dutch and High German in the
Sperm Whales have been captured near a hundred feet long at the time of
Spitzbergen sea, did not much exceed three months, say, and reckoning 30 men
Stubb.  Oh, jolly's the word for aye!  Adieu, Doubloon!  But stop; here comes
Such a statement may prove useful here.  According to a careful calculation I
Taurus, or the Bull --he bumps us the first thing; then Gemini, or the Twins --
Temple, the Rafters and Beams of which are made of Whale-Bones; for Whales
Tertiary system, those belonging to its latter formations exceed in size
The English were preceded in the whale fishery by the Hollanders, Zealanders,
The firm tower, that is Ahab; the volcano, that is Ahab; the courageous, the
The weaver-god, he weaves; and by that weaving is he deafened, that he hears
There are forty and odd vertebrae in all, which in the skeleton are not
Thus we see how that the spine of even the hugest of living things tapers off
Tranque, years ago, when attached to the trading-ship Dey of Algiers, I was
We all struck out.  To escape his terrible flailings, I seized hold of my
Whale can pass it without immediate death.  But the truth of the Matter is,
When the vast body had at last been stripped of its fathom-deep enfoldings,
a bouncing great whale, with a milky-white head and hump, all crows' feet and
a critical glance at the ivory limbs of the two crippled captains.  But, at his
a devil of a boat's crew for a pull on a whale-line); seeing all this, I say,
a flea --such portly terms might justly be deemed unwarrantably grandiloquent.
a huzzar's surcoat.  Hast seen the White Whale?  See you this?  and
a ruthless crew and every hour passed by ruthless hands, and through the
a shocking bad wound, began the whale-surgeon; and, taking my advice,
a spacious roundabout, that hung round him in festoons of blue pilot-cloth;
a tasting cruise to the remote waters of Japan.  That ship --well called the
according to my careful calculation, I say, a Sperm Whale of the largest
admeasurement of the whale.
admeasurements.  These admeasurements I now propose to set before you.  But
advance in magnitude upon those of all previous geological periods; may it
afar.  Now, amid the green, life-restless loom of that Arsacidean wood, the
affords a most congenial theme whereon to enlarge, amplify, and generally
after the second iron, to toss it overboard --down comes the tail like a Lima
again; what does that mean?  Hark!  he's muttering --voice like an old
again?  Twice.  But could not fasten?  Didn't want to try to: ain't one
against the bulwarks -- Man the boat!  Which way heading?  Good God!  cried
ages, you rascal.  What became of the White Whale?  now cried Ahab, who
akin to them in general respects, to justify their taking ranks as Cetacean
all the shrubs, and ferns, and grasses; the message-carrying air; all
all this, I will not admit that of all animals the whale alone should have
almost completely extinct; the subsequent relics discovered in what are
almost hourly used to it, like whalemen --to clamber up a ship's side from a
aloft there, wheels through toil and trouble; and so, alow here, does jolly
along the bulwarks, and with buckets of water and rags restore them to their
alongside of the Pequod.
altitude of the final rib.  How now!  they shouted; Dar'st thou measure
always what least allures.  He's all a magnet!  How long since thou saw'st him
among these latter was a great Sperm Whale, which, after an unusually long
an ingenious and very handy mechanical contrivance peculiar to the Pequod,
an opportunity to dissect him in miniature.  In a ship I belonged to, a small
anchor, or the crotch of an apple tree), and then giving the word, held
and Danes; from whom they derived many terms still extant in the fishery;
and Platonic application; and, furthermore, I compiled supplementary tables
and a thing not to be rigged and shipped in any other vessel at a moment's
and all aglow, as bridegrooms new-leaped from out the daintiest Holland.  Now,
and begat him curly-headed glories.  Now, when with royal Tranquo I visited
and biggest I ever saw, sir, in my life --I resolved to capture him, spite of
and bye we scrambled down, so sober, that we had to pass the flip again,
and did some service; how much does not appear.  But this is not all.  In 0084
and didn't know him then; but not to another one.  No more White Whales for
and following it back, I emerged from the opening where I entered.  I saw no
and fro I paced before this skeleton --brushed the vines aside --broke through
and gills of good gin and good cheer.  At the time, I devoted three days to
and goes to snapping furiously at my fast-line.  Aye, I see! --wanted to part
and he heaved it up in small tacks, d'ye see.  No possible way for him to
and mainmast; but in the multiplicity of other things requiring narration it
and one empty arm of this jacket streamed behind him like the broidered arm of
and quarter joes.  what then should there be in this doubloon of the Equator
and the Vineyard had in large fleets pursued that Leviathan, but only in the
and the ancient naturalists generally.  For Pliny tells us of whales that
and the bones become dust dry in the sun, then the skeleton was carefully
and think to be happy for aye, when pop comes Libra, or the Scales --happiness
and throughout the whole universe, not excluding its suburbs.  Such, and so
and what is yet more, their fat old fashions, touching plenty to eat and
and whoever raises a certain whale, this round thing belongs to him.  So,
another chance at you shortly, that's all.  No, thank ye, Bunger, said the
answer to any known species of the present time, they are yet sufficiently
any foulness, it still preserved its Quito glow.  Nor, though placed amongst
approach, nevertheless every sunrise found the doubloon where the sunset left
are used for beams whereon to lay foot-path bridges over small streams.  In
arithmetic, I'll try my hand at raising a meaning out of these queer
arm (like two sword-fish blades) cried out in his walrus way, Aye, aye,
arm off, did he?  asked Ahab, now sliding down from the capstan, and resting
arm towards the East, and taking a rueful sight along it, as if it had been a
aromatic canoes; and all these distributed among whatever natural wonders,
as his ancestors in Pliny's time.  And if ever I go where Pliny is, I, a
as though now for the first time beginning to interpret for himself in some
ascending from where the real jet had issued, I marvelled that the king
at a piece of gold, which did I have it now on Negro Hill or in Corlaer's
at last into simple child's play.
away from it in a straight line, not a little resembled the hull of a great
away we sail to fight some other world, and go through young life's old
away.  The great hatch is scrubbed and placed upon the try-works, completely
aye --they were mine -- my irons, cried Ahab, exultingly -- but on!  Give me a
banners waving, are in luxuriant profusion stamped; so that the precious gold
bannisters.  But this awkwardness only lasted a minute, because the strange
be it, then.  Born in throes, 't is fit that man should live in pains and die
be the invaluable memoirs of some Amsterdam cooper in the fishery, as every
bearing on the other hand similar affinities to the annihilated antichronical
beef, and the bread, and the can, and the joke; and were not soon weary
been all the time standing near them, with nothing specific visible, to
been at all sparing of historical whale research, when it has seemed needed.
been found at the base of the Alps, in Lombardy, in France, in England, in
been watching all of these interpreters --myself included --and look now, he
before he wheeled out of a former equinox at Aries!  From storm to storm!  So
behoves me now to unbutton him still further, and untagging the points of his
belike of the tallow-vats, dairy-rooms, butteries, and cheeseries in his
bend down our eyes, the dark vale shows her mouldy soil; but if we lift them,
beneath the great equator, and named after it; and it had been cast midway
beneath the skin of the adult whale; nevertheless, I have been blessed with
besides, it was an anti-scorbutic; in short, the bread contained the only
besooted all the bulwarks; the mariners go about suffused with unctuousness;
between two of twelve sitting-rooms all in a ring.  Book!  you lie there; the
binnacle
binnacle, with his glance fastened on the pointed needle in the compass, that
blackberrying.  Cook!  ho, cook!  and cook us!  Jenny!  hey, hey, hey, hey,
blind as a bat --both eyes out --all befogged and bedeadened with black foam
blotted out of existence.  When I stand among these mighty Leviathan skeletons,
blubber-hook, now clean and dry, was still attached to the end.  This was
boarded her once at midnight somewhere off the Patagonian coast, and drank
boat on the open sea; for the great swells now lift the boat high up towards
boat, which, d'ye see, was gunwale and gunwale with mine, then; and snatching
body in it.  They said it was bull-beef; others, that it was dromedary beef;
bolts and the verdigris of copper spikes, yet, untouchable and immaculate to
bones and skeletons, have within thirty years past, at various intervals,
bones stuck into a pair of old trowsers, and two more poked into the sleeves
bowels.  I confess, that since Jonah, few whalemen have penetrated very far
bowl-like cavity in his skull, but which bore not the slightest scarry trace,
bowlines; and we ignorantly furled the skirts of our jackets into
bright coin came from a country planted in the middle of the world, and
bulk.  To produce a mighty book, you must choose a
burly, good-natured, fine-looking man, of sixty or thereabouts, dressed in
but i do not know, for certain, how that was.  they had dumplings too; small,
but not so the English whaler.  Hence, in the English, this thing of whaling
but still sadly to me.  I will quit it, lest Truth shake me falsely.  There
but substantial, symmetrically globular, and indestructible dumplings.  I
by night, wondering whose it was to be at last, and whether he would ever
cabalistics, and the keystone sun entering the equinoctial point at Libra.
calendar, and Bowditch's navigator, and Daboll's arithmetic go.  Signs and
called the Tertiary formations seem the connecting, or at any rate
can shrink, d'ye see; and a leg that never can run.  Where did'st thou see
cannot solve itself.  Methinks now this coined sun wears a ruddy face; but
cannot understand how it is, that while the Egyptian mummies that were buried
capitals.  Give me a condor's quill!  Give me Vesuvius' crater for an inkstand!
capstan head.  With his ivory arm frankly thrust forth in welcome, the other
capstan, deliver lectures on the anatomy of the Cetacea; and by help of the
captain advanced, and Ahab, putting out his ivory leg, and crossing the ivory
captain, observing at a glance how affairs stood, cried out, I see, I see!
captain; he never drinks it; it's a sort of fits to him; fresh water
capture.  But may it not be, that while the whales of the present hour are an
case, however, where the reader is flooded with whole pipes, barrels, quarts,
cattle, should be put to this leviathan, to make him at all budge to any
caw!  Ain't I a crow?  And where's the scare-crow?  There he stands; two
ceiling a sculptured and painted planisphere, abounding in centaurs,
cerebellum; and sixpence for the unrivalled view from his forehead.  The
chance, then, said the Englishman, good-humoredly.  Well, this old
chapter; and now I'll read it off, straight out of the book.  Come, Almanack!
cheer of these English whalers is matter for historical research.  Nor have I
cheese consumed, seems amazing.  I impute it, though, to their naturally
clergy --am a strict total abstinence man; I never drink-- Water!  cried the
clinging to the side, that ley quickly exterminates it.  Hands go diligently
cocoa-nut tree, whose plumage-like, tufted droopings seemed his verdant jet.
college of Santa Claus and St.  Pott's, to whom I handed the work for
comes not far behind the united royal houses of the Tudors and Bourbons, in
comes to read,
compared with the living body.  Of this seventy-two feet, his skull and jaw
comprehensiveness of sweep, as if to include the whole circle of the
comprised some twenty feet, leaving some fifty feet of plain back-bone.
conclude so, if we are to credit the accounts of such gentlemen as Pliny,
concluded, then the crew themselves proceed to their own ablutions; shift
considerably outweigh the combined population of a whole village of one
considering these ribs, I could not but be struck anew with the circumstance,
constable by name, a certain sir clifford constable has in his possession the
continued the one-armed commander, I do not know; but in biting the line, it
copied verbatim from my right arm, where I had them tattooed; as in my wild
could go hang myself.  Any way, for the present, I'll quit Pip's vicinity.
crack fellows all, and capital from boot heels to hat-band.  But why was it,
cried Ahab, impetuously, and tossing about the oars near him -- Stand by to
cried Bunger,  stoopingly walking round Ahab, and like a dog, strangely
cub Sperm Whale was once bodily hoisted to the deck for his poke or bag, to
cub?
curing the wound, when whang come the arrows all round; Sagittarius, or the
cursed second iron towing along near me caught me here (clapping his hand
curvicues here with the Massachusetts calendar.  Here's the book.  Let's see
damocles.  it was a wondrous sight.  the wood was green as mosses of the icy
deafened; and only when we escape it shall we hear the thousand voices that
deafening.  But a day or two after, you look about you, and prick your ears
deck; think of having hangings to the top; object not to taking tea by
defilements, and learned to live here in clean tabernacles of the soul;
degenerated.  But still another inquiry remains; one often agitated by the
denote his gentlemanly rank on board.  His face was an exceedingly round but
dent, sir --removing his hat, and brushing aside his hair, and exposing a
did it get there?  And so they'll say in the resurrection, when they come to
die, you ought to die in pickle, you dog; you should be preserved to future
digest that jack-knife, and fully incorporate it into his general bodily
directly upon the palace of the Tuileries; and bones disinterred in
discourse of parlors, sofas, carpets, and fine cambrics; propose to mat the
dishes a roast-pig?  Surely not.  A veritable witness have you hitherto been,
disinterred in the Rue Dauphine in Paris, a short street opening almost
ditches, canals, and wells, wine-vaults, cellars, and cisterns of all sorts.
do not make plain; but in that year (
doctors declared it a huge reptile, and bestowed upon it the name of
drink.  For, as a general thing, the English merchant-ship scrimps her crew;
earthly symbol.  So in this vale of Death, God girds us round; and over all
easy to step over into a dark corner when you ate it.  But all in all, taking
embraced acres of living bulk, and Aldrovandus of others which measured eight
endeavors, the wound kept getting worse and worse; the truth was, sir, it
english captain, he's welcome to the arm he has, since I can't help it,
enterprise; not overlooking the minutest seminal germs of his blood, and
especially when I stand a'top of this pine tree here.  Caw!  caw!  caw!  caw!  caw!
ever-woven verdant warp and woof intermixed and hummed around him, the mighty
every Low Dutch harpooneer in that ancient Greenland and Spitzbergen whale
every little untoward circumstance that befel him, and which indirectly
every month assuming greener, fresher verdure; but himself a skeleton.  Life
example to all drunken tars.  However, the masts did not go overboard; and by
example.  For, say they, when cruising in an empty ship, if you can get
excavating the great docks of Antwerp, in Napoleon's time.  Cuvier pronounced
exceed in magnitude the fattest of Pharaoh's fat kine; in the face of
expatiate.  Would you, you could not compress him.  By good rights he
expressly purchased for that purpose; because that famous lexicographer's
fact is, you books must know your
famous voyage was commanded by a Captain Coffin, a Nantucketer.  All honor to
fancied measurement I please.  Because there are skeleton authorities you can
fancied that you could feel them, and roll them about in you after they were
fancy them to have been, were the right sort of men to stand up in a boat's
far North, be it remembered, where beer agrees well with the constitution;
features.  But to a large and thorough sweeping comprehension of him, it
few disordered joints; and in place of the weighty and majestic, but boneless
finally bestirred themselves to cleanse the ship, and make a spotless dairy
find the unmistakable print of his fin.  In an apartment of the great temple
first, be it recorded, that, in this matter, I am not free to utter any
first, the white hump backed through the wreck, as though it was all chips.
fish up this old mast, and find a doubloon lodged in it, with bedded oysters
fish.  But a combing sea dashed me off, and at the same instant, the fish,
fishery.  In the first place, the amount of butter, and Texel and Leyden
folded Death; Death trellised Life; the grim god wived with youthful Life,
foolish look to it; yet, if it be really foolish, then has it a sort of
footman will show round future visitors with a bunch of keys at his side.
for an old button off some king's trowsers.  But, aside again!  here comes
for my sanity.  So, so, I leave him muttering.  Here's the ship's navel,
for the shaggy bark.  Oh, the gold!  the precious, precious gold! --the green
forth its vapory spout; while, suspended from a bough, the terrific lower jaw
fossils.  Detached broken fossils of pre-adamite whales, fragments of their
found a silver ring grown over in it; some old darkey's wedding ring.  How
fresh fare they had.  But the forecastle was not very light, and it was very
from him, we gaze for him in vain!  This coin speaks wisely, mildly, truly,
from the ashes of the burned scraps of the whale, a potent ley is readily
full grown development, for that rare knowledge I am indebted to my late
full of the precious sperm, the Amelia's example was soon followed by other
full tidiness.  The soot is brushed from the lower rigging.  All the numerous
full-grown magnitude of my friend King Tranquo's.  In both cases, the stranded
fully invested body.  So Owen rechristened the monster Zeuglodon; and in his
furlongs from spiracle to tail, and the yards he measures about the waist;
gain a complete notion of the general structure we are about to view.  In
glance shot like a javelin with the pointed intensity of his purpose; and
glass, to each and every man in turn but mirrors back his own mysterious
globe of the moderns.  Gliding among them, old Leviathan swam as of yore; was
gold.  And what's the horse-shoe sign?  The lion is the horse-shoe sign --the
good God, the barb ript its way along the flesh --clear along the whole length
good cheer is not normal and natural, but incidental and particular; and,
good flip down in the forecastle.  It was a fine gam we had, and they were all
good luck would have it, they had had a whale alongside a day or two
gorgeous hills, whence, east and west, over golden sands, the head-waters of
got foul of his teeth, caught there somehow; but we didn't know it then; so
great chest of drawers, you can open and shut him, in all his bony cavities
great glory in killing him, I know that; and there is a ship-load of
great, white, worshipped skeleton lay lounging --a gigantic idler!  Yet, as the
great-grandfather, with the white head and hump, runs all afoam into the pod,
griffins, and dolphins, similar to the grotesque figures on the celestial
hand! -- but one single word with thee!  Nay --the shuttle flies --the figures
hard upon what are now the Tropics; and in all the 25,000 miles of this
hardly is this done, when -- There she blows! --the ghost is spouted up, and
harpoon-pole sticking in him, and for a moment clung to that like a sucking
harpooneer sleepy at the mast-head and boozy in his boat; and grievous loss
has not been added how that sometimes in these walks, when most plunged in
have layn there a hundred Years before I saw it.  Their Historians affirm,
have left their mouldings there since yesterday, murmured Starbuck to
have made, and which I partly base upon Captain Scoresby's estimate, of
have to say.  There; he's before it; he'll out with something presently.  So,
have villanies been detected.  Ah, mortal!  then, be heedful; for so, in all
he could hardly hope to attain.  It has before been hinted, perhaps, that
he held in one hand, and a pill-box held in the other, occasionally casting
he only thinks to terrify by feints.  But sometimes he is like the old
he was standing in the boat's stern, and the Manilla men were springing to
he's been studying Murray's Grammar!  Improving his mind, poor fellow!  But
head, and take good aim at flying whales; this would seem somewhat
head-waters of the Eternities, it may be fitly inquired, whether, in the
headlong we are tossed; when Aquarius, or the Water-bearer, pours out his
hearse-driver, he must have been, that is, before he took to the sea.  He
hearty!  let us shake bones together! --an arm and a leg! --an arm that never
heave the heavy windlass, and cut and slash, yea, and in their very
her from truck to helm, considering the dimensions of the cook's boilers,
here's nine hundred and sixty of them; so here goes Flask aloft to spy 'em
here's signs and wonders truly!  That, now, is what old Bowditch in his
hey, Jenny, Jenny!  and get your hoe-cake done!
hiding the pots; every cask is out of sight; all tackles are coiled in
high-bred, stall-fed, prize cattle of Smithfield, not only equal, but far
him in most of his present habitatory and anatomical peculiarities, it now
him like great cables and hausers coiled away in the subterranean orlop-deck
him nights; was very severe with him in the matter of diet-- Oh, very
him to completely digest even a
himself fast, and at the same time also helped to hoist his own weight, by
himself, leaning against the bulwarks.  The old
his angry flukes; only on the profound unbounded sea, can the fully invested
his crew were dropped to the water, and were soon alongside of the stranger.
his ivory heel -- it minds me of the noble, solid, Saxon hospitality of that
his mood, he was wont to pause in turn at each spot, and stand there
his mother did; he was born with it.  Oh, you solemn rogue, you --you Bunger!
his retired palm villa at Pupella; a sea-side glen not very far distant from
his unobstructed bones.  But as the colossal skull embraces so very large a
hitherto discovered belong to the Tertiary period, which is the last
hose, unbuckling his garters, and casting loose the hooks and the eyes of
hours; when from the boat, where they have swelled their wrists with all day
house of enderby and sons; a house which in my poor whaleman's opinion,
however wanton in their sailor ways, one and all, the mariners revered it as
hump!  instead of the other whale's that went off to windward, all fluking.
hunted, for all that.  What is best let alone, that accursed thing is not
idler seemed the cunning weaver; himself all woven over with the vines;
implements which have been in use are likewise faithfully cleansed and put
improbable.  Yet they did aim at them, and hit them too.  But this was very
in Hull, England, one of the whaling ports of that country, where they have
in depth.  Now, the greatest depth of the invested body of this particular
in my diet.  Oh!  a great watcher, and very dietetically severe, is Dr.
in one kind of world, you see.  Dodge again!  here comes Queequeg --all
in pangs!  So be it, then!  Here's stout stuff for woe to work on.  So be it,
in the Tertiary system (embracing a distinct geological period prior to man),
in the earlier geological strata there are found the fossils of monsters now
in the spinal column; threepence to hear the echo in the hollow of his
in this self-same ship; and were it not for the tell-tale boats and
in width something less than three feet, and in depth more than four.  The
inches long.  I measured it with the lead line.  In short, it grew black; I
inches.  In general thickness, they all bore a seemly correspondence to their
inches; they cracked each other's sconces with their yard-sticks -- the great
including his own live parchment boilers; fore and aft, I say, the Samuel
indefatigable house again bestirred itself: Samuel and all his Sons --how
industrious earth beneath was as a weaver's loom, with a gorgeous carpet on
inferior article). 550 ankers of Geneva. 10,800 barrels of beer.  Most
inscrutably constructed by Divine Providence, that it is quite impossible for
inserted, and the keel is otherwise, for the time, but a long, disconnected
insignificant opinion, I regard this as queer.  I have seen doubloons before
inspectingly.  He goes below; let me read.  A dark valley between three
intercepted links, between the antichronical creatures, and those whose
invited to spend part of the Arsacidean holidays with the lord of Tranque, at
is no fixture; and if, at midnight, we would fain snatch some sweet solace
is to be repeated concerning it in this chapter, you must not fail to carry
is to say, in his unconditional skeleton.  But how now, Ishmael?  How is it,
is ugly, too, for when aught's nailed to the mast it's a sign that things grow
is very large, 10,800 barrels.  Now, as those polar fisheries could only be
is, three hundred and sixty feet.  And Lacepede, the French naturalist, in his
it deck?  wherefore all these ceaseless toilings?  Speak, weaver! --stay thy
it every year, and yet comes out of it all alive and hearty.  Jollily he,
it in your mind, or under your arm, as we proceed, otherwise you will not
it set down here, that she hailed from London, and was named after the late
it!  Look you, Doubloon, your zodiac here is the life of man in one round
it, whereof the ground-vine tendrils formed the warp and woof, and the
it; and there goes Starbuck from the same, and both with faces which I
it; free the fast-fish --an old trick --I know him.  How it was exactly,
its convex part uppermost, makes an Arch, the Head of which cannot be
its many winding, shaded collonades and arbors.  But soon my line was out;
jack-knife, and breaking the seal and reading all the contents of that young
jaw.  Locks are to be put upon some of his trap-doors and shutters; and a
juggling fellow, formerly a patient of mine in Ceylon, that making believe
just below his shoulder); yes, caught me just here, I say, and bore me down
kept up an unextinguished aromatic flame, so that the mystic head again sent
knew what was threatened, and off it came.
labors, which know no night; continuing straight through for ninety-six
landsman's imagination?  Having already in various ways put before you his
large sized modern whale.  And I have heard, on whalemen's authority, that
last?  Which way heading?  Bless my soul, and curse the foul fiend's,
learned Low Dutch book treated of the commerce of Holland; and, among other
least ninety tons; so that reckoning thirteen men to a ton, he would
least, what untattooed parts might remain --I did not trouble myself with the
least; and that leg, too?  Spin me the yarn, said Ahab; how was it?  It
left his pre-adamite traces in the stereotype plates of nature, and in
length, the Sperm Whale's skeleton at Tranque measured seventy-two feet; so
length.  The middle ribs were the most arched.  In some of the Arsacides they
less than seventy feet in length in the skeleton.  Whereas, we have already
letters you saw the likeness of three Andes' summits; from one a flame; a
like a marble steeple.  No use sterning all, then; but as I was groping at
limb enough?  What should I do without this other arm?  And I'm thinking Moby
limestone and marl bequeathed his ancient bust; but upon Egyptian tablets,
list of the outfits for the larders and cellars of 180 sail of Dutch whalemen;
little King-Post; dodge round the try-works, now, and let's hear what he'll
live to spend it.  Now those noble golden coins of South America are as
livelong nights shrouded with thick darkness which might cover any pilfering
livers; and that the English whalers have not neglected so excellent an
living bulk of this leviathan, whose skeleton we are briefly to exhibit.
living flowers the figures.  All the trees, with all their laden branches;
living thing within; naught was there but bones.
locked together.  They mostly lie like the great knobbed blocks on a Gothic
long course of his generations, he has not degenerated from the original bulk
long; for in the whale, the skeleton loses about one fifth in length
longer, till you came to the climax of the fifth, or one of the middle ribs,
look, they look.  Why, he's getting it by heart --hist!  again.  I look,
look, you look, he looks; we look, ye look, they look.  Upon my soul,
lower!  In less than a minute, without quitting his little craft, he and
luffs up before the doubloon; halloa, and goes round on the other side of the
made; and whenever any adhesiveness from the back of the whale remains
magnifying, is the virtue of a large and liberal theme!  We expand to its
magnitude of that part.  Besides, for some way, where I now saw but a naked
magnitude, between eighty-five and ninety feet in length, and something less
make sheaths for the barbs of the harpoons, and for the heads of the lances.
malice is only his awkwardness.  For he never means to swallow a single limb;
man seems to read Belshazzar's awful writing.  I have never marked the coin
man's arm?  And he knows it too.  So that what you take for the White Whale's
many a Pactolus flows.  And though now nailed amidst all the rustiness of iron
many, their mother only knows --and under their immediate auspices, and
marvelled that the priests should swear that smoky jet of his was genuine.  To
mast; why, there's a horse-shoe nailed on that side; and now he's back
matters of barbaric vertu, had brought together in Pupella whatever rare
me; I've lowered for him once, and that has satisfied me.  There would be
means the mould of his invested form.  The largest of the Tranque ribs, one
measured but little more than eight feet.  So that this rib only conveyed half
medals of the sun and tropic token-pieces.  Here palms, alpacas, and
men intent on spying out more whales, which, if caught, infallibly will again
midday, with a blinding sun, all crown-jewels; as I was groping, I say,
might ensue to Nantucket and New Bedford.  But no more; enough has been said
mighty theme.  No great and enduring volume can ever be written on the flea,
mighty, heaven-abiding peaks, that almost seem the Trinity, in some faint
mind to pawn one arm for the sake of the privilege of giving decent burial to
mine once.  He flies into diabolical passions sometimes.  Do ye see this
miscellaneous time i have been a stone-mason, and also a great digger of
miser 'll hoard ye soon!  Hish!  hish!  God goes 'mong the worlds
moment, Ahab had forgotten that since the loss of his leg he had never once
monomaniac way whatever significance might lurk in them.  And some certain
moonlight on the piazza of the forecastle.  To hint to such musked mariners of
more curious of such remains is part of a skull, which in the year
much diluted and pickled it to my taste.  The beef was fine --tough, but with
muscle, blood, and bowels.  Still more, for the ample fins, I here saw but a
my ship, interrupted the one-armed captain, addressing Ahab; go on, boy.
nations to lower a whale-boat of any sort in the great South Sea.  The
natives pledge each other in bumpers of train oil.  The quantity of beer, too,
nearly six feet long; the second, third, and fourth were each successively
needs exist after all humane ages are over.  But not alone has this Leviathan
never look so white as just after what they call an affair of oil.  Besides,
no mortal voice; and by that humming, we, too, who look on the loom are
no.  only in the heart of quickest perils; only when within the eddyings of
not be, that since Adam's time they have degenerated?  Assuredly, we must
not hopefulness.  But one morning, turning to pass the doubloon, he seemed
not mean The Cooper, but The Merchant.  In short, this ancient and
not mine; he ordered the carpenter to make it; he had that club-hammer there
not stand to assert, that the Prophet Jonas was cast forth by the Whale at
nothing better out of the world, get a good dinner out of it, at least.  And
now in my voyagings; your doubloons of old Spain, your doubloons of Peru,
now's the old Mogul, soliloquized Stubb by the try-works, he's been twigging
now.  Signs and wonders; and the sun, he's always among 'em.  Hem, hem, hem;
odd inches; nor, indeed, should inches at all enter into a congenial
of Denderah, some fifty years ago, there was discovered upon the granite
of a line-of-battle-ship.  Since I have undertaken to manhandle this
of a monstrous size are oftentimes cast up dead upon that shore.  The Common
of an old jacket.  Wonder if he means me? --complimentary! --poor lad! --I
of eating, and drinking, and laughing?  I will tell you.  The abounding good
of gin.  Now, whether these gin and beer harpooneers, so fuddled as one might
of his sires.  But upon investigation we find, that not only are the whales of
of my arm --came out nigh my wrist, and up i floated; --and that gentleman
of my own, touching the probable quantity of stock-fish, etc., consumed by
of tastefully-ornamented man-ropes; for at first they did not seem to bethink
of the Academy of Sciences setting down certain Iceland Whales
of the honor, being a very fast sailer and a noble craft every way.  I
of the middle ones, occupied that part of the fish which, in life, is greatest
of the skeleton; as it is by far the most complicated part; and as nothing
of the true notion of the living
of the yarn.  The professional gentleman thus familiarly pointed out, had
on the Englishman's shoulder, as he did so.  Aye, he was the cause of it, at
once more hailing a ship showing English colors, bearing down under the
one of the most extraordinary creatures which the mutations of the globe have
one of these Dutch whalemen, including the short voyage to and from the
only makes a sign to the sign and bows himself; there is a sun on the coin
only think of the gigantic involutions of his intestines, where they lie in
or the Archer.  No: he don't know what to make of the doubloon; he takes it
other animals sculptured on the oldest Egyptian and Nineveh tablets, by the
other grand and lofty things; look here, --three peaks as proud as Lucifer.
our gloom, the sun of Righteousness still shines a beacon and a hope.  If we
out of you like billiard-balls.  The bread --but that couldn't be helped;
out.  Shall I call that wise or foolish, now; if it be really wise it has a
outer aspect; or separately and in detail upon some few interior structural
owen, the english anatomist, it turned out that this alleged reptile was a
paper read before the London Geological Society, pronounced it, in substance,
partly, I think, at their expense, the British government was induced to send
parts of my body to remain a blank page for a poem I was then composing --at
parts.  Sir Clifford's whale has been articulated throughout; so that, like a
passing through those fancy mints, so Spanishly poetic.  It so chanced that
paw; we escape, and hail Virgo, the Virgin!  that's our first love; we marry
pedigree like Leviathan?  Ahab's harpoon had shed older blood than the
people of the whole globe who so harpooned him.  In
perceived, respected sir --said the imperturbable godly-looking Bunger,
perhaps one of the most remarkable incidents in all the business of whaling.
perpendicular ladder of nailed cleets there, and swinging towards him a pair
pine tree.  My father, in old Tolland county, cut down a pine tree once, and
place, I wish to lay before you a particular, plain statement, touching the
places.  You'll do to give us the bare words and facts, but we come in to
plainly heard without the walls, bursting from the opened casements.  Thereby
plantation of Judge Creagh, in Alabama.  The awe-stricken credulous slaves in
pocket, and drawing near to Ahab's arm.  Avast!  roared Ahab, dashing him
point of real historical interest.  How long, prior to the year of our Lord 0083
point of view.  Applied to any other creature than the Leviathan --to an ant or
point! --his pulse makes these planks beat! --sir! --taking a lancet from his
pointing his ivory
politely bowed, and straightway went on to do his captain's bidding.  It was
poring over his dead attenuated skeleton, stretched in this peaceful wood.
possesses a singularly cleansing virtue.  This is the reason why the decks
preceding the superficial formations.  And though none of them precisely
precious jolly rascal.) But, heave ahead, boy, I'd rather be killed by you
precious sperm in him, but, hark ye, he's best let alone; don't you think
present, and to come, with all the revolving panoramas of empire on earth,
previous, and the great tackles were still aloft, and the massive curved
privilege of discoursing upon the joists and beams; the rafters, ridge-pole,
profound
proportion of the entire extent
proprietors call the only perfect specimen of a Greenland or River Whale in
prosecuted in the short summer of that climate, so that the whole cruise of
pulling hand-over-hand upon one of the running parts of the tackle.  Soon he
put to the end, to knock some one's brains out with, I suppose, as he tried
qualities, my royal friend Tranquo, being gifted with a devout love for all
quarter-boat, his ivory leg plainly revealed to the stranger captain, who
quarter-deck enormous masses of the whale's head are profanely piled; great
quickly lowered to Ahab, who at once comprehending it all, slid his solitary
raging gale, had been found dead and stranded, with his head against a
raised, it must be in a month and a day, when the sun stands in some one of
rate of ten gallons the hour; and when the squall came (for it's squally off
reached by a Man upon a Camel's Back.  This Rib (says John Leo) is said to
reader, and if you be a Nantucketer, and a whaleman, you will silently worship
refer to, to test my accuracy.  There is a Leviathanic Museum, they tell me,
relative proportions in which they are drawn, just as plainly prove that the
remains to magnify him in an archaeological, fossiliferous, and antediluvian
remark --that I myself --that is to say, Jack Bunger, late of the reverend
remote posterity are said to have entered the Ark; all the Fossil Whales
researches in the leviathanic histories, I stumbled upon an ancient Dutch
resemblances to the existing breeds of sea-monsters; but at the same time
ribs diminished, till the tenth and last only spanned five feet and some
riveted glance fastened upon the riveted gold coin there, he still wore the
roaring and devouring lion.  Ship, old ship!  my old head shakes to think of
room of it; many is the time the poor fellows, just buttoning the necks of
round border it bore the letters, REPUBLICA DEL ECUADOR: QUITO.  So this
round gold is but the image of the rounder globe, which, like a magician's
round so, that my boat's crew could only trim dish, by sitting all their
round world itself but an empty cipher, except to sell by the cartload, as
routine again.  Oh!  the metempsychosis!  Oh!  Pythagoras, that in bright
royal friend Tranquo, king of Tranque, one of the Arsacides.  For being at
rule --pointing at it with the marlingspike -- that is the captain's work,
rusty casks lie about, as in a brewery yard; the smoke from the try-works has
said, that whenever it has been convenient to consult one in the course of
sailed with thee along the Peruvian coast last voyage -- and, foolish as I am,
same aspect of nailed firmness, only dashed with a certain wild longing, if
sciences, and all the generations of whales, and men, and mastodons, past,
see!  aye, he enters the sign of storms, the equinox!  and but six months
seems almost to derive an added preciousness and enhancing glories, by
seen, that the tape-measure gives seventy-two feet for the skeleton of a
segment of the partitioned zodiac, the signs all marked with their usual
self.  Great pains, small gains for those who ask the world to solve them; it
sets down the Right Whale at one hundred metres, three hundred and
seventy tons for the largest sized Greenland whale of sixty feet in length;
severe!  chimed in the patient himself; then suddenly altering his voice,
sheltered it.  The ribs were hung with trophies; the vertebrae were carved
ship new-laid upon the stocks, when only some twenty of her naked bow-ribs are
ship; and may my parson forget me, and the devil remember me, if I ever lose
ships that ever regularly hunted the Sperm Whale; though for some score of
ships, English and American, and thus the vast Sperm Whale grounds of the
should only be treated of in imperial folio.  Not to tell over again his
should regard a chapel as an object of vertu.  He laughed.  But more I
should say might be somewhere within nine fathoms long.  And all from looking
sight of it.  Flip?  Did I say we had flip?  Yes, and we flipped it at the
significance lurks in all things, else all things are little worth, and the
sixty cigars.  I wont smoke dirty pipes like Stubb, but I like cigars, and
skeleton dimensions I shall now proceed to set down are
skeleton of a Sperm Whale, but of moderate size, by no means of the
skull echoed --and seizing that lucky chance, I quickly concluded my own
skull, spout-hole, jaw, teeth, tail, forehead, fins, and divers other parts,
skulls, tusks, jaws, ribs, and vertebrae, all characterized by partial
sleep.  There's a sermon now, writ in high heaven, and the sun goes through
sleepers, and under-pinnings, making up the frame-work of leviathan; and
slightly bowing to Ahab -- is apt to be facetious at times; he spins us many
smallest, where the spine tapers away into the tail, is only two inches in
snuffing; this man's blood --bring the thermometer; --it's at the boiling
so, Captain? --glancing at the ivory leg.  He is.  But he will still be
so, deprived of one leg, and the strange ship of course being altogether
so; he's beginning.  I see nothing here, but a round thing made of gold,
sober one; he was dressed in a faded blue woollen frock or shirt, and patched
soil the old oaken furniture, and drop at least one small grease-spot
some fine specimens of fin-backs and other whales.  Likewise, I have heard
some time afterwards, when coming back to the Line, we heard about Moby Dick
somewhere.  Yes; and many is the time, when, after the severest uninterrupted
sounded, we didn't see him again for some time; in fact, as I before hinted,
speak through it.  For even so it is in all material factories.  The spoken
speedy enterprise.  But now it's done, it looks much like Pompey's Pillar.
sperm whale bone, terminating in a wooden head like a mallet.  Man my boat!
spine, all that had been once wrapped round with tons of added bulk in flesh,
spinning him out to the uttermost coil of his bowels.  Having already described
spire, forming solid courses of heavy masonry.  The largest, a middle one, is
sprang from his luckless mishap, almost invariably irritated or exasperated
statistical tables are parchingly dry in the reading; not so in the present
steel the great Sperm Whale; and that for half a century they were the only
stepped on board of any vessel at sea but his own, and then it was always by
stern.  Trumpet to mouth, the old man was standing in his hoisted
sterns on the outer gunwale.  Presently up breaches from the bottom of the sea
strangely eyeing the particular object before him.  When he halted before the
stranger ship, and face set like a flint to his own, Ahab stood upright till
subjects, contained a very interesting account of its whale fishery.  And in
subterranean parts of the whale?  Did erudite Stubb, mounted upon your
sun and the equatorial try-works; when, on the heel of all this, they have
sun seemed a flying shuttle weaving the unwearied verdure.  Oh, busy weaver!
superior's introduction of him to Ahab, he
supply the thoughts.  That's my small experience, so far as the Massachusetts
surgeon: Bunger, my lad, -- the captain).  Now, Bunger boy, spin your part
suspended breath.  And harpoons sticking in near his starboard fin.  Aye,
swallow jack-knives, once upon a time let one drop into him in good earnest,
swallowed.  If you stooped over too far forward, you risked their pitching
sweatings to be smoked and burned anew by the combined fires of the equatorial
system.  Yes, Captain Boomer, if you are quick enough about it, and have a
taking one good dart forwards, went down like a flash; and the barb of that
tattooing --looks like the signs of the Zodiac himself.  What says the
taught thee, a green simple boy, how to splice a rope!
telescope; There I saw him, on the Line, last season.  And he took that
than forty feet in its fullest circumference, such a whale will weigh at
than kept alive by any other man.  My captain, you must have ere this
that a Prophet who prophesy'd of Mahomet, came from this Temple, and some do
that fine gam I had --long, very long after old Ahab touched her planks with
that ghost-devil, Fedallah; tail coiled out of sight as usual, oakum in the
that in the museum of Manchester, in New Hampshire, they have what the
that is so killing wonderful?  By Golconda!  let me read it once.  Halloa!
that it was the production of one Fitz Swackhammer.  But my friend Dr.
that on either side of the Temple, there are Rocks that shoot two Miles into
that the Nantucketers were the first among mankind to harpoon with civilized
that when fully invested and extended in life, he must have been ninety feet
that when we afterwards pulled on the line, bounce we came plump on to his
that you, a mere oarsman in the fishery, pretend to know aught about the
the Base of the Temple.  In this Afric Temple of the Whale I leave you,
the Crab, and drags us back; and here, going from Virtue, Leo, a roaring
the Enderbies, therefore, whose house, I think, exists to the present day;
the English Captain, to whom the question was put.  What's the matter?  He
the Sea, and wound the Whales when they light upon 'em.  They keep a Whale's
the United States.  Moreover, at a place in Yorkshire, England, Burton
the White Whale? --how long ago?  The White Whale, said the Englishman,
the almanack and as I have heard devils can be raised with Daboll's
the bandages; and sending me to bed, half seas over, about three o'clock in
the battering-ram, Capricornus, or the Goat; full tilt, he comes rushing, and
the boiling rage he seemed to be in.  And thinking the hap-hazard line would
the bulwarks, and then instantaneously drop it half way down to the kelson.
the days of Banks and Solander, Cooke's naturalists, we find a Danish member
the doubloon of the Pequod was a most wealthy example of these things.  On its
the entire ship seems great leviathan himself; while on all hands the din is
the entire ship's company, the whole of this conscientious duty is at last
the great South Sea of the other world.  The ship named after him was worthy
the joints of his innermost bones, set him before you in his ultimatum; that
the largest is the Alabama one mentioned in the last chapter, and that was
the morning.  Oh, ye stars!  he sat up with me indeed, and was very severe
the old women talk Surgeon's Astronomy in the back country.  And by Jove, he's
the other, why in that case the arm is yours; only let the whale have
the present day superior in magnitude to those whose fossil remains are found
the ribs --and with a ball of Arsacidean twine, wandered, eddied long amid
the sails, so that we hung there, reefed fast in the howling gale, a warning
the sloop-of-war Rattler on a whaling voyage of discovery into the South Sea.
the studious digesting of all this beer, beef, and bread, during which many
the sun is in the thigh, or in the calf, or in the bowels, I suppose, as
the sun then be?  The horse-shoe sign; for there it is, right opposite the
the two officers of the strange ship, leaning over the side, by the
the vicinity took it for the bones of one of the fallen angels.  The Alabama
the white whale's talisman.  Sometimes they talked it over in the weary watch
the wonder-freighted, tribute-rendering waves had cast upon his shores.  Chief
thee.  There's another rendering now; but still one text.  All sorts of men
their clean frocks, are startled by the cry of There she blows!  and away
their coffins as a modern Kentuckian in his socks; and while the cattle and
their oars.  In vain the English Captain hailed him.  With back to the
their proprietors upon similar grounds.  King Tranquo seizing his because he
their subject, though it may seem but an ordinary one.  How, then, with me,
them that a one-legged man must be too much of a cripple to use their sea
them; a regular circus horse he was, too, that went milling and milling
themselves from top to toe; and finally issue to the immaculate deck, fresh
then.  No fairy fingers can have pressed the gold, but devil's claws must
then?  But hereupon a fierce contest rose among them, concerning feet and
there by Patagonia), and all hands --visitors and all --were called to reef
there swimming in that planisphere, centuries before Solomon was cradled.
there will tell you the rest (by the way, captain --Dr.  Bunger, ship's
there, at the three mast heads, stand three
therefore, I say, we have precisely two barrels of beer per man, for a
therefore, must have some special origin,
these dissertations, I have invariably used a huge quarto edition of Johnson,
these fragments to have belonged to some utterly unknown Leviathanic species.
these signs.  I've studied signs, and know their marks; they were taught me
these unceasingly were active.  Through the lacings of the leaves, the great
they do hills about Boston, to fill up some morass in the Milky Way.  Now
they fly to fight another whale, and go through the whole weary thing again.
thigh into the curve of the hook (it was like sitting in the fluke of an
thing you distantly allude to.  Away, and bring us napkins!  But mark: aloft
things the more ingenious of his people could invent; chiefly carved woods of
think ye, that the Samuel Enderby, and some other English whalers I know of
this chapter it was, headed Smeer, or Fat, that I found a long detailed
this din of the great world's loom, thy subtlest thinkings may be overheard
this doubloon here, and they are all on fire to unscrew it.  But, unscrew
this doubloon was of purest, virgin gold, raked somewhere out of the heart of
this emprise under the weightiest words of the dictionary.  And here be it
this empties the decanter.
this our god!  That's for us.  Aye, priests --well, how long do ye make him,
this vast ivory-ribbed chest, with the long, unrelieved spine, extending far
this wondrous whale, and saw the skull an altar, and the artificial smoke
those of its earlier ones.  Of all the pre-adamite whales yet exhumed, by far
though doubtless the original Samuel must long ago have slipped his cable for
though many there be who have tried it.  Ere entering upon the subject of
though the savage salt spray bursting down the forecastle scuttle, rather too
thoughts were incidentally suggested to me, capable of a transcendental
thousand one hundred inhabitants.  Think you not then that brains, like yoked
thousands of years before even Pliny was born, do not measure so much in
throws him into the hydrophobia; but go on --go on with the arm story.  Yes,
thus far had been impatiently listening to this bye-play between the two
timber.  The ribs were ten on a side.  The first, to begin from the neck, was
to Hell's flames, I was thinking; when, when, all of a sudden, thank the
to a clumsy landsman again; hopelessly eyeing the uncertain changeful height
to be newly attracted by the strange figures and inscriptions stamped on it,
to each of their fleet of 180 sail, we have 5,400 Low Dutch seamen in all;
to show that the old Dutch whalers of two or three centuries ago were high
to take the boat's steering oar, and Ahab, swinging the cutting-tackle
toes of his pumps as usual.  What does he say, with that look of his?  Ah,
topsails, we were so top-heavy that we had to swing each other aloft in
towards him, commanded the ship's sailors to stand by to lower.  In a moment
tower on another; on the third a crowing cock; while arching over all was a
tower, cutting my boat in two, leaving each half in splinters; and, flukes
translation, giving him a box of sperm candles for his trouble -- this same
transported up the Pupella glen, where a grand temple of lordly palms now
treating of the Sperm Whale, I have chiefly dwelt upon the marvels of his
trowsers; and had thus far been dividing his attention between a marlingspike
trumps --every soul on board.  A short life to them, and a jolly death.  And
try-works, you would all but swear you trod some silent merchant vessel,
twelve weeks' allowance, exclusive of his fair proportion of that 550 ankers
twenty-eight feet.  And this work was published so late as A. D.
two score years ago, by the old witch in Copenhagen.  Now, in what sign will
uncommon personal bulk more fitted him to compile a lexicon to be used by a
unctuous natures, being rendered still more unctuous by the nature of their
undaunted, and victorious fowl, that, too, is Ahab; all are Ahab; and this
unseen nooks; and when by the combined and simultaneous industry of almost
unseen weaver! --pause! --one word! -- whither flows the fabric?  what palace may
unspeakable terrors of the whale, which, having been before all time, must
unsupplied with the kindly invention, Ahab now found himself abjectly reduced
untravelled man to try to comprehend aright this wondrous whale, by merely
up the Andes, in the unwaning clime that knows no autumn.  Zoned by those
upon the Equator, in our southern fishery, beer would be apt to make the
urchins, the priest's children, who had stolen them to play marbles with.
valuable sperm; and then, with weary patience, cleansed ourselves from its
valuable statistics.  But as I was crowded for space, and wished the other
vast skeleton of an extinct monster, found in the year
vibrated over all the devotees, like the hair-hung sword that so affrighted
vigorous Enderbys, boldly rounded Cape Horn, and was the first among the
vocation, and especially by their pursuing their game in those frigid Polar
volcanoes; sun's disks and stars; ecliptics, horns-of-plenty, and rich
volume, which, by the musty whaling smell of it, I knew must be about
voyage was a skilful and lucky one; and returning to her berth with her hold
wake along the present lines of the Andes and the Himmalehs.  Who can show a
wanderings at that period, there was no other secure way of preserving such
wanted it; and Sir Clifford, because he was lord of the seignories of those
warning.  Now, it is no very easy matter for anybody --except those who are
was as ugly gaping wound as surgeon ever saw; more than two feet and several
was carefully swung inside the high bulwarks, and gently landed upon the
was carelessly reclining in his own boat's bow.  He was a darkly-tanned,
was heading east, I think. --Is your Captain crazy?  whispering Fedallah.
was the first time in my life that I ever cruised on the Line, began the
was the mighty circular basket of ribs which once enclosed his vitals.  To me
was there ever such another Bunger in the watery world?  Bunger, when you
we can consider it is, with a crane, to pile its bones high up on end.  No
we lowered for a pod of four or five whales, and my boat fastened to one of
we mortals by long toilings extracted from the world's vast bulk its small but
we suddenly jump, as Scorpio, or the Scorpion, stings us in rear; we are
weather there on the Line.  But it was no use --I did all I could; sat up with
were still smaller ones, but they had been lost by some little cannibal
whale author like me.  One often hears of writers that rise and swell with
whale be truly and livingly found out.  But the spine.  For that, the best way
whale must have been at least sixteen feet; whereas, the corresponding rib
whale ship must carry its cooper.  I was reinforced in this opinion by seeing
whale, in his own osseous post-diluvian reality, as set down by the venerable
whale, though of a departed species.
whaleman (more than he was), will make bold to tell him so.  Because I
whalers.  The title was, Dan Coopman, wherefore I concluded that this must
whales to which these two skeletons belonged, were originally claimed by
what our sailors called Bamboo-Town, his capital.  Among many other fine
what's all this staring been about?  It is worth sixteen dollars, that's true;
what's that he says now -- hist!  I look, you look, he looks; we look, ye
wheels among 'em.  Aye, here on the coin he's just crossing the threshold
when resuming his walk he again paused before the mainmast, then, as the same
which is here pointed out, and will be still further elucidated.  During my
whole deluge and drowns us; and to wind up with Pisces, or the Fishes, we
whose antiquity seems to claim for them an almost fossiliferous character, we
width, and looks something like a white billiard-ball.  I was told that there
will any whaleman believe these stories?  No.  The whale of to-day is as big
windlass, hold up a specimen rib for exhibition?  Explain thyself, Ishmael.
wiseish look to it.  But, avast; here comes our old Manxman --the old
with Arsacidean annals, in strange hieroglyphics; in the skull, the priests
with a most scrupulously neat commander.  The unmanufactured sperm oil
with elated step, they pace the planks in twos and threes, and humorously
with man.  Here Saturn's grey chaos rolls over me, and I obtain dim, shuddering
with that unearthly idiot face.  stand away again and hear him.  hark!  I
withdrawing it from the fold that had hidden it, he held up a white arm of
wonders!  There's a clue somewhere; wait a bit; hist--hark!  By Jove, I have
wonders, eh?  Pity if there is nothing wonderful in signs, and significant in
wondrous period, ere time itself can be said to have begun; for time began
wont to pace his quarter-deck, taking regular turns at either limit, the
words that are inaudible among the flying spindles; those same words are
world's circumference, not an inhabitable hand's breadth of land was visible.
worn-out coffee-mill.  Prick ears, and listen!  If the White Whale be
wrinkles.  It was he, it was he!  cried Ahab, suddenly letting out his
writing of this Leviathan?  Unconsciously my chirography expands into placard
years previous (ever since
you how that came here; he knows.  No, I don't, said the captain, but
you know, gentlemen, that the digestive organs of the whale are so
you look, he looks; we look, ye look, they look.  Well, that's funny.
you, sir --hearts and souls alive, man --the next instant, in a jiff, I was
your doubloons of Chili, your doubloons of Bolivia, your doubloons of
your navel, and what's the consequence?  Then again, if it stays here, that
