














































     Aft here, ye sons of bachelors, he cried, as the sailors lingered at the
     Ain't that queer, now?  But there's no telling, it's the old game --Here goes
     Already we are boldly launched upon the
     As Queequeg and I are now fairly embarked
     At length, towards noon, upon the
     Aye, aye, said Stubb, the second mate, Starbuck, there, is as careful a
     But this insult is whittled down to a point only."  But now comes the
     For several days after leaving Nantucket,
     God!  who didst not refuse to the swart convict, Bunyan, the pale, poetic
     I am the architect, not the builder.  But it is a ponderous task; no ordinary
     In behalf of the dignity of whaling, I
     It's very queer.  Stop, Stubb; somehow, now, I don't well know whether to go
     Little Flask was one of the wrought ones; made to clinch tight and last
     Man the capstan!  Blood and thunder! --jump! --was the next command, and the
     Mast-head, there!  Look sharp, all of ye!  There are whales hereabouts!  If
     Next morning Stubb accosted Flask.  Such a
     No, sir; not yet, said Stubb, emboldened, I will not tamely be called a
     Some chapters back, one Bulkington was
     Some days elapsed, and ice
     Stubb was the second mate.  He
     The chief mate of the Pequod was
     Whaling not respectable?  Whaling is imperial!  By old English statutory
     When Stubb had departed, Ahab stood for a
     When close to the whale, in the very death-lock of the fight, he handled his
     When on that shivering winter's night, the Pequod thrust her vindictive bows
     a mature man who uses hair-oil, unless medicinally, that man has probably got
     and
     blazes!  he called me ten times a donkey, and piled a lot of jackasses on
     blood in their veins?  They have something better than royal blood there.
     did kick me, and I didn't observe it, I was so taken all aback with his brow,
     dollars; and every year importing into our harbors a well reaped harvest of 00847,000,000 dollars.  How comes all this, if there be not something puissant in
     famous author, and whaling no famous chronicler?  Who wrote the first
     for a snooze.  Damn me, it's worth a fellow's while to be born into the
     he breathed at last, who be ye smokers?  Shipped men, answered I, when
     his totality.  But the only thing to be considered here, is this --what kind
     leg, didn't he?" "Yes, he did," says I. "Well then," says he, "wise Stubb,
     one arm elevated, and holding by a shroud; Captain Ahab stood erect, looking
     pay to her whalemen in bounties upwards of 1,000,000
     pounds?  And lastly, how comes it that we whalemen of America now outnumber
     that come to pass; ere the Pequod's weedy hull rolls side by side with the
     them tragic graces; if even the most mournful, perchance the most abased,
     they came with an indifferent air; and while engaged in the most imminent
     to be regarded among landsmen as a rather unpoetical and disreputable
     who have at large or in little, written of the whale.  Run over a few: --The
     your boast, Stubb, that ye were kicked by old Ahab, and made a wise man of.
"Halloa," says I,"what's the matter now, old fellow?" "Look ye here," says
(sperm whale), says Surgeon Beale, A. D.
,
, Linnaeus declares, I hereby separate the whales
--How?  how?  how? --but the only way's
--he would mutter to himself, -- for an old captain like me to be descending
--now a word below, and now a word with Starbuck, the chief mate.  But, at
--say your last.  Luck to ye, Starbuck --luck to ye, Mr. Stubb --luck to ye,
--this day darting the barbed iron from one side of the world to the other.
--which I felt, yet whenever I came to look about me in the ship, it seemed
--worse nor a toothache.  Well, well; I don't know what it is, but the Lord
.  It is not my intention, were it in my power, to enter
.  Unfitness to pursue our
.. < chapter xxii 12  MERRY CHRISTMAS >
.. < chapter xxiii 28  THE LEE SHORE >
.. < chapter xxiv 2  THE ADVOCATE >
.. < chapter xxix 2  ENTER AHAB; TO HIM, STUBB >
.. < chapter xxv 27  POSTSCRIPT >
.. < chapter xxvi 26  KNIGHTS AND SQUIRES >
.. < chapter xxvii 2  KNIGHTS AND SQUIRES >
.. < chapter xxviii 11  AHAB >
.. < chapter xxx 4  THE PIPE >
.. < chapter xxxi 2  QUEEN MAB >
.. < chapter xxxii 6  CETOLOGY >
.. <p 100 >
.. <p 100 >
.. <p 101 >
.. <p 102 >
.. <p 103 >
.. <p 104 >
.. <p 104 >
.. <p 105 >
.. <p 106 >
.. <p 107 >
.. <p 108 >
.. <p 109 >
.. <p 109n. >
.. <p 110 >
.. <p 110 >
.. <p 110n. >
.. <p 111 >
.. <p 111 >
.. <p 112 >
.. <p 113 >
.. <p 114 >
.. <p 115 >
.. <p 116 >
.. <p 117 >
.. <p 118 >
.. <p 119 >
.. <p 119 >
.. <p 120 >
.. <p 121 >
.. <p 122 >
.. <p 123 >
.. <p 124 >
.. <p 125 >
.. <p 126 >
.. <p 126 >
.. <p 127 >
.. <p 128 >
.. <p 129 >
.. <p 129 >
.. <p 130 >
.. <p 131 >
Africa, Nantucket, and the pagan harbors most frequented by whalemen; and
Ahab lurchingly paced the planks.
Ahab should be tranquilly laid out --which might hardly come to pass, so he
Ahab.  Some moments passed, during which the thick vapor came from his mouth
Ahasuerus Daggoo, was the Squire of little Flask, who looked like a chess-man
Anacharsis Clootz deputation from all the
And all these subtle agencies, more and more they wrought on Ahab's texture.
And as for the matter of the alleged uncleanliness of our business, ye shall
April and May, trip home to the wintry, misanthropic woods; even the barest,
Arctic whalers; and which by the means of many radiating side timbers
Australian settlement, the emigrants were several times saved
Author of Miriam Coffin; Olmstead; and the Rev.  T. Cheever.  But to what
Authors of the Bible; Aristotle; Pliny; Aldrovandi; Sir Thomas Browne;
Bildad --come, old shipmate, we must go.  Back the main-yard there!  Boat ahoy!
Bildad lingered long; paced the deck with anxious strides" ran down into the
Bildad, who, with Peleg, be it known, in addition to his other offices, was
Brisson; Marten; Lacepede; Bonneterre; Desmarest; Baron Cuvier; Frederick
But poorly could I withstand them, much as in other moods I was almost ready
Canaan stood, While Jordan rolled between.  Never did those sweet words sound
Cape Horn, no commerce but colonial, scarcely any intercourse but colonial,
Cape-Cod-man.  A happy-go-lucky; neither craven nor valiant; taking perils as
Captain Ahab is all ready --just spoke to him --nothing more to be got from
Captain Ahab remained invisibly enshrined within his cabin.
Captain Ahab would probably marshal his forces to descend on the whales,
Captain Ahab, no sign of him was yet to be seen; Only, they said he was in the
Captain Bildad.  For loath to depart, yet; very loath to leave, for good, a
Christmas; and as the short northern day merged into night, we found
Cuvier; John Hunter; Owen; Scoresby; Beale; Bennett; J. Ross Browne; the
Don't stave the boats needlessly, ye harpooneers; good white cedar plank is
Flask?  ain't there a small drop
Gesner; Ray; Linnaeus; Rondeletius; Willoughby; Green; Artedi; Sibbald;
Glimpses do ye seem to see of that mortally intolerable truth; that all deep,
Good again; but then all confess that somehow whaling is not respectable.
Good-bye, good-bye!  Don't keep that cheese too long down in the hold, Mr.
Great, who, with his own royal pen, took down the words from Other, the
Greenland whale is deposed, --the great sperm whale now reigneth!  There are
Greenland whalers sailing out of Hull or London, put in at the Shetland
He breathed with a sort of muffledness; then seemed troubled in the nose;
He kept a whole row of pipes there ready loaded, stuck in a rack, within easy
He would hum over his old rigadig tunes while flank and flank with the most
I do but less than half like it, sir.  Avast!  gritted Ahab between his set
I dreamed he kicked me with it; and when I tried to kick back, upon my soul,
I hereupon offer my own poor endeavors.  I promise nothing complete; because
I say this continual smoking must have been one cause, at least, of his
I thought.  If ye touch at the islands, Mr. Flask, beware of fornication.
I was going to ask him some further questions concerning Ahab, when we heard a
I, Captain Peleg must have been drinking something to-day.  At last the anchor
Indian to be a son of the Prince of the Powers of the Air.  Tashtego was Stubb
Islanders seem to make the best whalemen.  They were nearly all Islanders in
Islands, to receive the full complement of their crew.  Upon the passage
It was so with Ahab; only that now, of late, he seemed so much to live in
Jackson from the pebbles; who didst hurl him upon a war-horse; who didst
Khan of the plank, and a king of the sea, and a great lord of Leviathans was
Krusenstern.  For in their succorless emptyhandedness, they, in the
Leviathans had personally and hereditarily affronted him; and therefore it
Listen to what the best and latest authorities have laid down.  No branch of
Martha's Vineyard, where there still exists the last remnant of a village of
Mary Folger, one of the old settlers of Nantucket, and the ancestress to a
Meantime, overseeing the other part of the ship, Captain Peleg
Mr. Flask --good-bye, and good luck to ye all --and this day three years I'll
Nevertheless, the old sea-traditions, the immemorial credulities, popularly
Norwegian whale-hunter of those times!  And who pronounced our glowing eulogy
Oh, that's only nominal!  The whale himself has never figured in any grand
Old age is always wakeful; as if, the longer linked with life, the less man
Owen ever saw living whales; and but one of them was a real professional
Pequod was only making a passage now; not regularly cruising; nearly all
Railroads.  The same, I say, because in all these cases the native American
Reference to nearly all the leviathanic allusions in the great poets of past
Remember what I say; be kicked by him; account his kicks honors; and on no
Scoresby, A. D.
See subsequent chapters for something more on this head.
See subsequent chapters for something more on this head.
So utterly lost was he to all sense of reverence for the many marvels of their
Spain, and the establishment of the eternal democracy in those parts.  That
Stand by to come close alongside, now!  Careful, careful! --come, Bildad, boy
Starbuck, a native of Nantucket, and a Quaker by descent.  He was a long,
Starbuck; it'll spoil.  Be careful with the butter --twenty cents the pound it
Stubb," I thought I might as well fall to kicking the pyramid again.  But I
System of Nature, A. D.
The Captain came aboard last night.  What Captain? --Ahab?  Who but him
The grandmother of Benjamin Franklin was Mary Morrel" afterwards, by marriage,
Vineyarder, a Cape man.  Now, it being Christmas when the ship shot from out
Whale Fishery) to his visiting card, such a procedure would be deemed
What am I that I should essay to hook the nose of this leviathan!  The awful
Wherefore he had no fancy for lowering for whales after sun-down; nor for
Your Krusensterns; but I say that scores of anonymous Captains have sailed
Zoology is so much involved as that which is entitled Cetology, says Captain
a Dutchman, all other ships long shunned those shores as pestiferously
a battery, would quickly recoil at the apparition of the sperm whale's vast
a common pitch pine leg he kicked with, was it?  No, you were kicked by a
a plenty; and so in some small degree, with cetology, or the science of
a quoggy spot in him somewhere.  As a general rule, he can't amount to much in
a word he spoke; nor did his officers say aught to him; though by all their
abounding dignity which has no robed investiture.  Thou shalt see it shining
about half an inch or so, into the plank.  His bone leg steadied in that hole;
about the first thing babies do, and that's a sort of queer, too.  Damn me,
absolute!  The centre and circumference of all democracy!  His omnipresence,
accompanied by his boat-steerer or harpooneer, who in certain conjunctures
account kick back; for you can't help yourself, wise Stubb.  Don't you see
account of our Leviathan?  Who but mighty Job!  And who composed the first
account that man more honorable than that great captain of antiquity who
acquainted with, still I ascribed this --and rightly ascribed it --to the
against all warrantry to
ale.  He must have been born in some time of general drought and famine, or
alive.  He seemed to do most of the talking and commanding, and not Bildad.
all his barbaric virtues, and erect as a giraffe, moved about the decks in
all invited guests.  He was as particular about the comfortable arrangement of
all other hunted whales, his is an unwritten life.  Now the various species of
all that's kind to our mortalities.  But in that gale, the port, the land, is
all the pomp of six feet five in his socks.  There was a corporeal humility
all the rest of the banded whalemen in the world; sail a navy of upwards of
allusion was made to it, especially by the mates.  But once Tashtego's
alone resides the highest truth, shoreless, indefinite as God --so, better is
among the cleanliest things of this tidy earth.  But even granting the charge
among them all, shall at times lift himself to the exalted mounts; if I shall
an anchor in their waters.  The uncounted isles of all Polynesia confess the
an enraged and mighty man.  But were the coming narrative to reveal, in any
an offing, that the two pilots were needed no longer.  The stout sail-boat
and also his pipe.  lighting the pipe at the binnacle lamp and planting the
and at intervals singing what seemed a dismal stave of psalmody, to cheer the
and desiring him to make a settee of himself under a spreading tree, perhaps
and european men-of-war now peacefully ride in once savage harbors, let them
and families....  Utter confusion exists among the historians of this animal
and icebergs all astern, the Pequod now went rolling through the bright Quito
and least known parts of the earth.  She has explored seas and archipelagoes
and steering her well out to sea.  Indeed, as that was not at all his proper
and the insertion into it, of the ivory heel.  Ah!  Stubb, thou did'st not
and there may be a caster of state.  How they use the salt, precisely --who
and unhorse you with a split helmet every time.  The whale has no famous
and with that, Peleg hurried him over the side, and both dropt into the
angels, and beat his tambourine in glory; called a coward here, hailed a
any human thing supposed to be complete, must for that very reason infallibly
any other whale hunter.  Starbuck was no crusader after perils; in him
are, that is true.  But butchers, also, and butchers of the bloodiest badge
arid summers had he seen; those summers had dried up all his physical
as the harpooneers were flingers of javelins.  And since in this famous
ashore or afloat, is terribly infected with the nameless miseries of the
at hand upon all mortally practical occasions.  Besides, he thought, perhaps,
at last. --Down, dog, and kennel!  Starting at the unforeseen concluding
at the apparition of Captain Peleg in the act of withdrawing his leg from my
at times affected, and in some cases seemed well nigh to overbalance all the
attempt.  Those books are Beale's and Bennett's; both in their time surgeons
august dignity I treat of, is not the dignity of kings and robes, but that
author, and whaling no famous chronicler, you will say.  The whale no
away with thee, friend Starbuck, and do our bidding.  How now!  Here upon the
back and strike him, or --what's that? -- down here on my knees and pray for
barbarous; but the whale-ship touched there.  The whale-ship is the true
barnacled hulls of the leviathan; at the outset it is but well to attend to a
battering seas.  Now these three mates --Starbuck, Stubb, and Flask, were
battled with virgin wonders and terrors that Cooke with all his marines and
bay on his native coast.  And never having been anywhere in the world but in
be faulty.  I shall not pretend to a minute anatomical description of the
be seen actively engaged in looking over the bows for the approaching anchor,
became still less and less a recluse; as if, when the ship had sailed from
been so killed Starbuck well knew.  What doom was his own father's?  Where, in
before sailed out of Nantucket, had never ere this laid eye upon wild Ahab.
before you, and at the same time, in the remotest degree succeed in the
before.  Poor Alabama boy!  On the grim Pequod's forecastle, ye shall ere
begone, or I'll clear the world of thee!  As he said this, Ahab advanced upon
beside him.  As for the residue of the Pequod's company, be it said, that at
bestirred themselves; the mates were actively engaged; and several of the
between a living thump and a dead thump.  That's what makes a blow from the
beyond the swelling flood, Stand dressed in living green.  So to the Jews old
birth-mark on him from crown to sole.  So powerfully did the whole grim aspect
bless ye, and have ye in His holy keeping, men, murmured old Bildad, almost
board the Pequod, particularly in getting under weigh; and Charity, his
boasted of taking as many walled towns.  And, as for me, if, by any
boat.  Ship and boat diverged; the cold, damp night breeze blew between; a
bodily blight.  It was merely the condensation of the man.  He was by no
bone of the sperm whale's jaw.  Aye, he was dismasted off Japan, said the
both ran, in starting on the voyage with such a devil for a pilot.  I was
bottom of the sea after them; to have one's hands among the unspeakable
break thy backbone!  why don't ye spring, i say, all of ye--spring!  Quohog!
brother-in-law, and a spare bible for the steward -- after all this, the two
burn, as before so many shrines, to our glory!  But look at this matter in
business of whaling.  One way and another, it has begotten events so
business, but the pilot's; and as he was not yet completely recovered --so
but all things are queer, come to think of 'em.  But that's against my
but with some cautiousness dropt it to its place, for fear of disturbing
by any means the largest of the whales.  Yet, owing to the long priority of
by what a grey Manxman insinuated, an old sepulchral man, who, having never
cabin to speak another farewell word there; again came on deck, and looked
cabin.  But then, the idea was,
calculated to allay these colorless misgivings, and induce confidence and
cane.  Yes," thinks I,"it was only a playful cudgelling --in fact, only a
captains, Peleg and Bildad, issued from the cabin, and turning to the chief
castaways, I shall hereafter ascribe high qualities, though dark; weave round
celebrate as they will the heroes of Exploring Expeditions, your Cookes,
chapters to, these men accounted unworthy of being set down in the ship's
character seem gone; bleeds with keenest anguish at the undraped spectacle
cheek bones, and black rounding eyes --for an Indian, Oriental in their
cheerfulness in every presentment of the voyage.  Three better, more likely
cherish such emotions.  For though the harpooneers, with the great body of
chief mate, had selected for his squire.  But Queequeg is already known.  Next
chief mate, that; good man, and a pious; but all alive now, I must turn
chimney hag.  seeing he wasn't going to stop saying over his "wise Stubb, wise
classification of the constituents of a chaos, nothing less is here essayed.
clothes all rumpled and tumbled, and the sheets down at the foot, and the
clout --what do you think, I saw? --why thunder alive, man, his stern was stuck
coal-black
coast, were the most conspicuous object in the cymballed procession.  Grant
come to beg truce of a fortress.  Curious to tell, this imperial negro,
come to me that this ivory leg had at sea been fashioned from the polished
comforting myself, however, with the thought that in pious Bildad might be
common log.  Ah, the world!  Oh, the world!  Until the whale fishery rounded
comparable to the unspeakable carrion of those battle-fields from which so
completely stifle her upbraidings against the permitting stars.  But this
comprehensible terrors of man compared with the interlinked terrors and
concerned in, for he never piloted any other craft --Bildad, I say, might now
conflict with seas, or winds, or whales, or any of the ordinary irrational
connected with it, then am I ready to shiver fifty lances with you there,
conspire to cast her on the treacherous, slavish shore?  But as in landlessness
continent of men, but each Isolato living on a separate continent of his
convenient on an excursion; much better than those garden-chairs which are
convertible into walking-sticks; upon occasion, a chief calling his attendant,
coronation, even as a head of salad.  Can it be, though, that they anoint it
cosmopolite philosopher cannot, for his life, point out one single peaceful
could certainly say.  By some tacit consent, throughout the voyage little or no
could, nevertheless, still flourish, must indeed have been extreme.  But it
courage up.  And brave as he might be, it was that sort of bravery chiefly,
courage was not a sentiment; but a thing simply useful to him, and always
coverlid almost tied into knots, and the pillow a sort of frightful hot, as
crawl to land!  Terrors of the terrible!  is all this agony so vain?  Take
creature, that over any ignominious blemish in him all his fellows should run
crew sprang for the handspikes.  Now, in getting under weigh, the station
crews from the hardy peasants of those rocky shores.  In like manner, the
crippled way.  Some considerating touch of humanity was in him; for at times
crisis of the chase, toiling away, calm and collected as a journeyman joiner
cursed pyramid -- so confoundedly contradictory was it all, all the while, I
custom of fattening some of the lower orders for ottomans; and to furnish a
dangerous voyage, could so unrestingly push off again for still another
days, will satisfy you that the Greenland whale, without one rival, was to
death into an easy chair.  What he thought of death itself, there is no
deck sentinelled the slumbers of the band below; and when if a rope was to be
deck, and pretty close to the mizen shrouds, there was an auger hole, bored
deck.  As the sky grew less gloomy; indeed, began to grow a little genial, he
deemed almost superfluous to establish the fact, that among people at large,
deep; but soon we shall be lost in its unshored, harborless immensities.  Ere
did he put forth the faint blossom of a look, which, in any other man, would
did," says I --"right here it was." "Very good," says he --"he used his ivory
divided into wrought nails and cut nails; so mankind may be similarly divided.
do well in all climates.  Looking into his eyes, you seemed to see there the
does she sail?  Aye, aye, ye are going in her, be ye?  She sails to-day.
dog, sir.  Then be called ten times a donkey, and a mule, and an ass, and
doubt, like a good sailor, he took it to be a sort of call of the watch to
dreams would have been of the crunching teeth of sharks.  But once, the mood
each other at the watches, and for aught that could be seen to the contrary,
earnest man, and though born on an icy coast, seemed well adapted to endure
earnest thinking is but the intrepid effort of the soul to keep the open
easy!  He was going on with some wild reminiscences about his tomahawk-pipe,
either.  Mr Starbuck, mind that cooper don't waste the spare staves.  Oh!  the
elemental strife at sea.  Yet, this wild hint seemed inferentially negatived,
elephant, vast curving icicles depended from the bows.  Lank Bildad, as pilot,
employed in the American whale fishery, are Americans born, though pretty
emulation of the naval officers he should append the initials S. W.  F. (Sperm
engaged for the year.  Good-humored, easy, and careless, he presided over his
engaged therein, we are surrounded by all manner of defilements.  Butchers we
engineering forces employed in the construction of the American Canals and
enlightened world by the whaleman.  After its first blunder-born discovery by
enough; especially as in the merchant service many captains never show
ere long the old man would emerge, griping at the iron banister, to help his
estimation of the encountered peril, but that an utterly fearless man is a
eternal August of the Tropic.  The warmly cool, clear, ringing, perfumed,
eventuated the liberation of Peru, Chili, and Bolivia from the yoke of Old
ever deserve any real repute in that small but high hushed world which I might
exasperated monster.  Long usage had, for this Stubb, converted the jaws of
except in port; and on board the Pequod, for thirty years, the order to
exclamation of the so suddenly scornful old man, Stubb was speechless a
experiences and remembrances as he had; it was not in nature that these
face; in all the nameless regal overbearing dignity of some mighty woe.  Ere
facts, an advocate who should wholly suppress a not unreasonable
far more dangerous comrade than a coward.
far-away domestic memories of his young Cape wife and child, tend to bend him
far-off unseen Eastern Continents; looked towards the land, looked aloft;
fashion, to swim off into the air.  I snored; rolled over; and there I was
fearfulness upon the man, who in mid-winter just landed from a four years'
fellow who anoints his hair, and palpably smells of that anointing.  In truth,
fellows, and lay them round in the piers and alcoves.  Besides, it was very
few moments I hardly noted that not a little of this overbearing grimness was
fierce uniqueness of the very nature of that wild Scandinavian vocation in
fights 'gainst the very winds that fain would blow her homeward; seeks all
final dismissal of the ship's riggers, and after the Pequod had been hauled
fire salutes to the honor and glory of the whale-ship, which originally showed
firmest fortitude, a determinate unsurrenderable
fish for the fun of it; and a three years' voyage round Cape Horn was only a
fishery as with the American army and military and merchant navies, and the
fishery, each mate or headsman, like a Gothic Knight of old, is always
fit; and closely wrapped up in it, and embalmed with inner health and
fleets?  Why did Louis XVI.  of France, at his own personal expense, fit out
follow.  It is some systematized exhibition of the whale in his broad genera,
fools, and murderers there may be; men may have mean and meagre faces; but
for all his philosophy, there was a tear twinkling in his eye, when the
for almost all the tapers, lamps, and candles that burn round the globe,
for long ages to come, and to endure always, as now; for be it Polar snow or
for the missionary and the merchant, and in many cases carried the primitive
found some salvation, spite of his seven hundred and seventy-seventh lay;
found, and they were every one of them Americans; a Nantucketer, a
foundations, ribs, and very pelvis of the world; this is a fearful thing.
freely, while imperturbable Bildad kept leading off with his psalmody.  Thinks
friends, before they quit the ship for good with the pilot.  But there was
from starvation by the benevolent biscuit of the whale-ship luckily dropping
from the cabin with orders so sudden and peremptory, that after all it was
from the fish.  But of my own knowledge, I know that down to the year
from, the cabin to the planks.  It feels like going down into one's tomb,
full of marlinspikes, with the points out.  Says I, on second thoughts,"I
fullest of trouble.  What business have I with this pipe?  This thing that is
further to those latent influences which, in some honest-hearted men,
generally occupied by the pilot is the forward part of the ship.  And here
generic name of Gay-Headers.  Tashtego's long, lean, sable hair, his high
gifts.  Have an eye to the molasses tierce, Mr. Stubb; it was a little leaky,
glistened in the moonlight; and like the white ivory tusks of some huge
going it with a high hand on the quarter-deck, just as if they were to be
good-bye to a thing so every way brimful of every interest to him, --poor old
good-humor of his; that thing must have been his pipe.  For, like his nose,
grave; where such as ye sleep between shrouds, to use ye to the filling one
great America on the other side of the sphere, Australia, was given to the
great glory to be slapped by a queen, and made garter-knights of; but, be
great man, and with a beautiful ivory leg, Stubb.  It's an honor; I consider
greatest joke of the dream, Flask.  While I was battering away at the
greybeards will oftenest leave their berths to visit the night-cloaked deck.
grooves out the bark from top to bottom, ere running off into the soil,
ground with their packs; what helped to bring about that almost impious
guess I won't kick you, old fellow." "Wise Stubb," said he,"wise Stubb;" and
had only just lifted my foot for it, when he roared out, "Stop that kicking!"
hairs, and continuing right down one side of his tawny scorched face and neck,
hand, Flask, fifty times more savage to bear than a blow from a cane.  The
hands at the windlass, who roared forth some sort of a chorus about the girls
harpooneer and whaleman.  I mean Captain Scoresby.  On the separate subject of
has to do with aught that looks like death.  among sea-commanders, the old
hauled upon the forecastle, the sailors flung it not rudely down, as by day,
have I been unconsciously toiling, not pleasuring, --aye, and ignorantly
have a hot supper smoking for ye in old Nantucket.  Hurrah and away!  God
have been all Martial Commanders whom the world invariably delights to honor.
have been.  Why did the Dutch in DeWitt's time have admirals of their whaling
have soon flowered out in a smile.
have the heart to write it; for it is a thing most sorrowful, nay shocking,
having now led for many years the bold life of the fishery in the ships of
he could be well likened to the short, square timber known by that name in
he ever did chance to cast his mind that way after a comfortable dinner, no
he not be blameworthy?  It is well known that at the coronation of kings and
he soliloquized at last, withdrawing the tube, this smoking no longer
he;"let's argue the insult.  Captain Ahab kicked ye, didn't he?" "Yes, he
headed the first watch, and ever and anon, as the old craft deep dived into
headsman each of them belonged.  first of all was queequeg, whom Starbuck, the
heaped up --flaked up, with rose-water snow.  The starred and stately nights
heart, take heart, O Bulkington!  Bear thee grimly, demigod!  Up from the spray
heathenish sharked waters, and by the beaches of unrecorded, javelin islands,
heavens attest.  Cetus is a constellation in the South!  No more!  Drive down
heavy-hearted cheers, and blindly plunged like fate into the lone Atlantic.
heightened at times by the ragged Elijah's diabolical incoherences uninvitedly
her harbor, for a space we had biting Polar weather, though all the time
hero there!
high, broad form, seemed made of solid bronze, and shaped in an unalterable
him with such overbearing terrors in his aspect, that Stubb involuntarily
him?  Yes, that was the thought coming up in me; but it would be the first
his claims, and the profound ignorance which, till some seventy years back,
his ears were two golden hoops, so large that the sailors called them
his face, as much as to say, Nevertheless, friend Peleg, I can stand it;
his hardy sobriety and fortitude, there were certain qualities in him which
his made him a little waggish in the matter of whales; he followed these
his merits, were he presented to the company as a harpooneer, say; and if in
his part of the boat, as an old stage-driver is about the snugness of his box.
his quarter-deck.  There seemed no sign of common bodily illness about him,
his short, black little pipe was one of the regular features of his face.  You
his stern to me, bent over, and dragging up a lot of seaweed he had for a
his wearied mates, seeking repose within six inches of his ivory heel, such
home, nothing but the dead wintry bleakness of the sea had then kept him so
homewards, they drop them there again.  How it is, there is no telling, but
horrors of the world, yet cannot withstand those more terrific, because more
hot latitudes, his flesh being hard as twice-baked biscuit.  Transported to
house comfortably in that respect, you had only to buy up eight or ten lazy
howled, and the cordage rang, his steady notes were heard, -- Sweet fields
humorousness, hinted that if Captain Ahab was pleased to walk the planks,
hunted in the wake of the great whales of the sea; the unerring harpoon of
idea of peril so much enhances the popular conceit of the soldier's
ignorance to this present day still reigns in all but some few scientific
ignorance.  Outward portents and inward presentiments were his.  And if at
immediate vicinity.  That was my first kick.  Is that the way they heave in
imposing way.  The whale never figured in any grand imposing way?  In
in Booble Alley, with hearty good will.  Nevertheless, not three days
in Parliament?  Who, but Edmund Burke!  True enough, but then whalemen
in ice, as in polished armor.  The long rows of teeth on the bulwarks
in looking up at him; and a white man standing before him seemed a white flag
in my desk, then here I prospectively ascribe all the honor and the glory to
in my hammock!  Now, what do you think of that dream, Flask?  I don't know;
in question to be true; what disordered slippery decks of a whale-ship are
in quick and constant puffs, which blew back again into his face.  How now,
in some damp marshy place.  While narrating these things, every time Queequeg
in the arm that wields a pick or drives a spike; that democratic dignity
in the old South Sea Voyages, those things were but the lifetime commonplaces
in this business of whaling; and as this business of whaling has somehow come
in which some thousands of his hard earned dollars were invested; a ship, in
incline him to superstition; but to that sort of superstition, which in some
incoherently.  I hope ye'll have fine weather now, so that Captain Ahab may
incomplete indications but serve to torture us naturalists.  Thus speak of
indeed?
independence of her sea; while the wildest winds of heaven and earth
influence, which within the last sixty years has operated more potentially
injustice hereby done to us hunters of whales.  In the first place, it may be
inserted in it, served to brace the ship against the icy concussions of those
instance, the complete abasement of poor Starbuck's fortitude, scarce might I
instant the ship shot by the bubble the sinking pipe made.  With slouched hat,
into the cold malicious waves, who should I see
into the inquiry as to the true method of dividing the cetacea into groups
invested the then fabulous and utterly unknown sperm-whale, and which
invested this old Manxman with preternatural powers of discernment.  So that
is ever to become hospitable, it is the whale-ship alone to whom the credit
is my twelfth -- So here goes again.  But how's that?  didn't he call me a dog?
isles of the sea, and all the ends of the earth, accompanying Old Ahab in the
issues, that whaling may well be regarded as that Egyptian mother, who bore
it an honor.  Listen, wise Stubb.  In old England the greatest lords think it
it fared with him as with the storm-tossed ship, that miserably drives along
it seems a sort of foolish to me, tho'.  May be, may be.  But it's made a
it to perish in that howling infinite, than be ingloriously dashed upon the
it, since you cite it; but, say what you will, there is no real dignity in
its intolerable weather behind us.  It was one of those less lowering, but
jacket, there was yet, it then seemed to me, many a pleasant haven in
joint-commanders at sea, as well as to all appearances in port.  And, as for
jolly joke that lasted that length of time.  As a carpenter's nails are
keep me from catching it.  He's full of riddles; I wonder what he goes into
kept muttering it all the time, a sort of eating of his own gums like a
kick?"  By the lord, Flask, I had no sooner said that, than he turned round
knew nothing and says nothing of the great sperm whale, compared with which
know Ahab then.  Am I a cannon-ball, Stubb, said Ahab, that thou wouldst
know a man that, in his lifetime, has taken three hundred and fifty whales.  I
knowledge of the cetacea.  A field strewn with thorns.  All these
knows?  Certain I am, however, that a king's head is solemnly oiled at his
land, though it but graze the keel, would make her shudder through and
lantern came too near.  And he, too, did not a little run from cabin to deck
largeness, but Antarctic in their glittering expression --all this
last sunny deck, he seemed as unnecessary there as another mast.  But the
last, he turned to his comrade, with a final sort of look about him, -- Captain
late, calling a sailor of the watch, he sent him below for his ivory stool,
latitude which we sailed, gradually leaving that merciless winter, and all
law, the whale is declared a royal fish.
layer were piled upon his brow, as ever all clouds choose the loftiest peaks
leaving the tree still greenly alive, but branded.  Whether that mark was born
lee, even if that were safety!  For worm-like, then, oh!  who would craven
letter-sorter in the Post-office is equal to it.  To grope down into the
liberal professions.  If a stranger were introduced into any miscellaneous
liberally provides the brains, the rest of the world as generously supplying
libraries and sailed through oceans; I have had to do with whales with these
like these, he usually abstained from patrolling the quarter-deck; because to
likewise, against all mortal tribulations, Stubb's tobacco smoke might have
little respond to the playful allurings of that girlish air.  More than once
living member --that makes the living insult, my little man.  And thinks I to
living, and not to be killed by them for theirs; and that hundreds of men had
loading them again to be in readiness anew.  For, when Stubb dressed, instead
long line of Folgers and harpooneers --all kith and kin to noble Benjamin
long see him, beating his tambourine; prelusive of the eternal time, when
long, from his first visit in the air, he withdrew into his cabin.  But after
long.  They called him King-Post on board of the Pequod; because, in form,
looked right and left; looked everywhere and nowhere; and at last,
made a pilot in order to save the Nantucket pilot-fee to all the ships he was
main-mast.  Mr. Starbuck, drive 'em aft.  Strike the tent there! --was the
majestic bulk and mystic ways; and so dead to anything like an apprehension
man as you'll find anywhere in this fishery.  But we shall ere long see what
man, but I was frightened.  Such a phiz!  But, somehow, next moment I was over
man, in the ideal, is so noble and so sparkling, such a grand and glowing
mantle of humanity over all my kind!  Bear me out in it, thou great democratic
many of her most daring harpooneers.  In the fishery, they usually go by the
many soldiers return to drink in all ladies' plaudits?  And if the
marchings, ever cullest Thy selectest champions from the kingly commons; bear
mast without coming home for it.  he has a quiver of 'em.  I was struck with
mate, Peleg said: Now, Mr. Starbuck, are you sure everything is right?
matter almost indispensable to a thorough appreciative understanding of the
me by the shoulders, and slews me round.  "What are you 'bout?" says he.  Slid!
me out in it, O God!
me out in it, thou just spirit of equality, which hast spread one royal
me?  I don't stand right on my legs.  Coming afoul of that old man has a sort
means ill-looking; quite the contrary.  His pure tight skin was an excellent
meant for sereneness, to send up mild white vapors among mild white hairs,
mechanically coiling a rope upon its pin, convulsively grasped stout Peleg by
melancholy rapidity, that as I mounted to the deck at the call of the forenoon
memories like these in him, and, moreover, given to a certain
memory of their absent conquering Earls, the golden helmeted suns!  For
memory shot her crystals as the clear ice most forms of noiseless twilights.
men; but don't miss a fair chance either, that's rejecting Heaven's good
merely lend new spells and potencies to the outward world.  Inward they turned
metropolitan society, it would but slightly advance the general opinion of
might be ruminated here, concerning the essential dignity of this regal
minutest gestures and expressions, they plainly showed the uneasy, if not
missionaries to their first destinations.  If that double-bolted land, Japan,
moment; then said excitedly, I am not used to be spoken to that way, sir;
momentous men.  They it was who by universal prescription commanded three of
more curious, Flask--you know how curious all dreams are-- through all this rage
more special leviathanic revelations and allusions of all sorts which are to
more starting to encounter all the terrors of the pitiless jaw; loath to say
more sweetly to me than then.  They were full of hope and fruition.  Spite of
mother of that now mighty colony.  Moreover, in the infancy of the first
mould, like Cellini's cast Perseus.  Threading its way out from among his grey
muskets would not willingly have dared.  All that is made such a flourish of
muttered --then, whoever should do that last office for the dead, would find a
muttered Stubb, as he found himself descending the cabin-scuttle.
my death, my executors, or more properly my creditors, find any precious MSS.
my little man, I kicked my leg right off!  And then, presto!  Ahab seemed a
myself all the while, mind, while I was stubbing my silly toes against that
narrative of a whaling-voyage?  Who, but no less a prince than Alfred the
nearly all the officers are.  Herein it is the same with the American whale
necessarily small; but so far as it goes, it is of excellent quality,
need of profane words, however great the hurry, Peleg, said Bildad, but
negro-savage, with a lion-like tread --an Ahasuerus to behold.  Suspended from
never speak to him, whatever he says.  Halloa!  what's that he shouts?  Hark!
next order.  As I hinted before, this whalebone marquee was never pitched
no white sailor seriously contradicted him when he said that if ever Captain
noise on deck.  Halloa!  Starbuck's astir, said the rigger.  He's a lively
noise; hinting something indistinctly and hesitatingly about a globe of tow,
nor of the recovery from any.  He looked like a man cut away from the stake,
nose as without his pipe.
not among torn iron-grey locks like mine.  I'll smoke no more-- He tossed the
not be unreasonably ambitious of; if hereafter I shall do anything that,
not much chance to think over the matter, for Captain Peleg was now all
not till he was full forty years old did Ahab become that way branded, and
nothing above hatches was seen of Captain Ahab.  The mates regularly relieved
now; and thus chase away, for that one interval, the clouds that layer upon
numberless mortals who have died exhaling it; and as in time of the cholera,
object here is simply to project the draught of a systematization of cetology.
of Ahab affect me, and the livid brand which streaked it, that for the first
of Tisbury, in Martha's Vineyard.  A short, stout, ruddy young fellow, very
of a valor-ruined man.  Nor can piety itself, at such a shameful sight,
of any possible danger from encountering them; that in his poor opinion, the
of families from our own island of Nantucket?  Why did Britain between the
of first putting his legs into his trowsers, he put his pipe into his mouth.
of oil is used at coronations?  Certainly it cannot be olive oil, nor macassar
of our heroic Nantucketers.  Often, adventures which Vancouver dedicates three
of something queer about that, eh?  a white whale--did ye mark that, man?  Look
of the ship, like her beef and her bread, and not to be foolishly wasted.
of the tusks of the narwhale.  How could one look at Ahab then, seated on that
of them ever come back.  Black Little Pip --he never did --oh, no!  he went
of thy ocean-perishing --straight up, leaps thy apotheosis!
of turned me wrong side out.  By the Lord, I must have been dreaming, though
offspring themselves pregnant from her womb.  It would be a hopeless, endless
oil, nor castor oil, nor bear's oil, nor train oil, nor cod-liver oil.  What
old Gay-Head Indian once; but like his dismasted craft, he shipped another
on my handspike, and told Queequeg to do the same, thinking of the perils we
once; why, the end of it --the foot part --what a small sort of end it is;
one of the licensed pilots of the port --he being suspected to have got himself
one of the mighty triumphs given to a Roman general upon his entering the
only two books in being which at all pretend to put the living sperm whale
operated as a sort of disinfecting agent.  The third mate was Flask, a native
or elbowed in the assault; and moreover, as there generally subsists between
or taking away one particle from their compacted aged robustness.  His whole
organizations seems rather to spring, somehow, from intelligence than from
original matter touching the sperm whale to be found in their volumes is
other lights; weigh it in all sorts of scales; see what we whalemen are, and
our divine equality!  If, then, to meanest mariners, and renegades and
ourselves almost broad upon the wintry ocean, whose freezing spray cased us
ourselves, so far within us, that it remains intact though all the outer
out from the wharf, and after the ever-thoughtful Charity had come off in a
out of Nantucket, that were as great, and greater than your Cooke and your
out when he obeyed the order, and not sooner.  What, perhaps, with other
outline one for the present, hereafter to be filled in all its departments by
overflowing, redundant days, were as crystal goblets of Persian sherbet,
owing to the barbaric white leg upon which he partly stood.  It had previously
own.  Yet now, federated along one keel, what a set these Isolatoes were!  An
owners uncommonly heedful of what manner of men they shipped; daggoo retained
pace he was measuring the ship from taffrail to mainmast, Stubb, the odd
painful, consciousness of being under a troubled master-eye.  And not only
pearl; Thou who didst clothe with doubly hammered leaves of finest gold, the
peculiar disposition; for every one knows that this earthly air, whether
pequod to lay the world's grievances before that bar from which not very many
peril; her only friend her bitterest foe!  Know ye, now, Bulkington?
perilous vicissitudes of the fishery.  I will have no man in my boat, said
persisting in fighting a fish that too much persisted in fighting him.  For,
persuasiveness of the pleasant, holiday weather we came to, seemed gradually
pivot-hole, or seated upon an ivory stool he had; or heavily walking the
plain they but commanded vicariously.  Yes, their supreme lord and dictator
plenty of them in the tropic voyage ye go.  Be careful in the hunt, ye mates.
possibility, there be any as yet undiscovered prime thing in me; if I shall
pre-eminently presuming and ridiculous.  Doubtless one leading reason why the
preliminaries to settle.  first: the uncertain, unsettled condition of this
prevail, habitually, the silent steersman would watch the cabin-scuttle; and
previous, Bildad had told them that no profane songs would be allowed on
principles.  Think not, is my eleventh commandment; and sleep when you can,
process, because in common life we esteem but meanly and contemptibly a
proclamation.  This is Charing Cross; hear ye!  good people all, --the
profession; let me assure ye that many a veteran who has freely marched up to
proud warrior hunters, who, in quest of the great New England moose, had
provides him with a fresh lance, when the former one has been badly twisted,
provinces on the Pacific coast.  It was the whaleman who first broke through
pugnacious concerning whales, who somehow seemed to think that the great
pursuit; therefore, I am all anxiety to convince ye, ye landsmen, of the
pyramid, a sort of badger-haired old merman, with a hump on his back, takes
pyramid, and I, like a blazing fool, kept kicking at it.  But what was still
queens, even modern ones, a certain curious process of seasoning them for
queer dream, King-Post, I never had.  You know the old man's ivory leg, well
rainbow over his disastrous set of sun; then against all mortal critics bear
raised full three per cent.  within the year.  Don't forget your prayers,
reach of his hand; and, whenever he turned in, he smoked them all out in
received the tomahawk from me, he flourished the hatchet-side of it over the
recurring to me, with a subtle energy I could not have before conceived of.
red men, which has long supplied the neighboring island of Nantucket with
remain over the cabin table, having a farewell merrymaking with their shore
remarkable in themselves, and so continuously momentous in their sequential
requiring only a little circumvention and some small application of time and
research in the unfathomable waters.  Impenetrable veil covering our
rest.  Uncommonly conscientious for a seaman, and endued with a deep natural
restrain the gush of dare-devil daring, so often evinced by others in the more
retreated.  I was never served so before without giving a hard blow for it,
retreats and whale-ports; this usurpation has been every way complete.
reverence, the wild watery loneliness of his life did therefore strongly
ring-bolts, and would talk of securing the top-sail halyards to them.  In his
ripped and swore astern in the most frightful manner.  I almost thought he
row?  It's not a real leg, only a false leg."  And there's a mighty difference
ruggedest, most thunder-cloven old oak will at least send forth some few green
running away from it to the southward; and by every degree and minute of
sail-needles are in the green locker!  Don't whale it too much a' Lord's days,
same truth, and do commercial homage to the whale-ship, that cleared the way
say, I was thinking to myself, "what's his leg now, but a cane --a whalebone
science of Cetology is in the very vestibule attested by the fact, that in
scoured, bow in hand, the aboriginal forests of the main.  But no longer
screaming gull flew overhead; the two hulls wildly rolled; we gave three
sea-officers and men, each in his own different way, could not readily be
secluded.  And, by and by, it came to pass, that he was almost continually in
second mate, came up from below, and with a certain unassured, deprecating
seducing nights.  But all the witcheries of that unwaning weather did not
seemed haughty dames in jewelled velvets, nursing at home in lonely pride, the
senior, an old Gay-Head Indian among the crew, superstitiously asserted that
sent for, to the great quarter-deck on high, he was bid strike in with
seven hundred vessels; manned by eighteen thousand men; yearly consuming 00824,000,000 of dollars; the ships worth, at the time of sailing, 20,000,000
sharks and shad, alewives and herring, against Linnaeus's express edict, were
ship bound on so long and perilous a voyage --beyond both stormy Capes; a ship
shivers ran over me.  Reality outran apprehension; Captain Ahab stood upon
shore people were busy in bringing various last things on board.  Meanwhile
shore, eh?  Well, call all hands, then.  Muster 'em aft here --blast 'em!  No
sister, had placed a small choice copy of Watts in each seaman's berth.
six-inch chapter is the stoneless grave of Bulkington.  Let me only say that
sleeper's head.  What's that for, Queequeg?  Perry easy, kill-e; oh!  perry
sleeping man, 'twas hard to choose between such winsome days and such
smoking to windward all the while; to windward, and with such nervous
snuffing in the trail of the wild beasts of the woodland, Tashtego now
so saying, he moved along the windlass, here and there using his leg very
so that there was little or nothing, out of himself, to employ or excite Ahab,
some folks ashore call a conscience; it's a kind of Tic-Dolly-row they say
some people go about with a camphorated handkerchief to their mouths; so,
some quarters it still remains a moot point whether a whale be a fish.  In his
somehow.  It flashed like a bleached bone.  What the devil's the matter with
soon be initiated into certain facts hitherto pretty generally unknown, and
soon be moving among ye --a pleasant sun is all he needs, and ye'll have
soothes.  Oh, my pipe!  hard must it go with me if thy charm be gone!  Here
soul, when we were directly attracted to the sleeping rigger.  The strong
space permitted, it might be distinctly shown how from those whalemen at last
spiritual terrors, which sometimes menace you from the concentrating brow of
spoken of, a tall, new-landed mariner, encountered in New Bedford at the inn.
spring, thou chap with the red whiskers; spring there, Scotchcap; spring,
spring, which, at sea, almost perpetually reigns on the threshold of the
sprouts, to welcome such glad-hearted visitants; so Ahab did, in the end, a
standing at her helm but Bulkington!  I looked with sympathetic awe and
starbuck, who is not afraid of a whale.  by this, he seemed to mean, not only
state, the sweetest of all oils?  Think of that, ye loyal Britons!  we
stern?  Well, the best thing you can do, Flask, is to let that old man alone;
steward, tell me that of a morning he always finds the old man's hammock
still found dividing the possession of the same seas with the Leviathan.  The
still grey and gloomy enough mornings of the transition, when with a fair wind
still lighted pipe into the sea.  The fire hissed in the waves; the same
still more from the original ruggedness of his nature, and open him still
stock-companies and nations; knaves,
stool on the weather side of the deck, he sat and smoked.  In old Norse times,
store; and meads and glades so eternally vernal, that the grass shot up by
straight out beyond the ship's ever-pitching prow.  There was an infinity of
straight, lofty trunk of a great tree, when the upper lightning
strength, like a revivified Egyptian, this Starbuck seemed prepared to endure
strike the tent was well known to be the next thing to heaving up the anchor.
stumped and paupered arm of old Cervantes; Thou who didst pick up Andrew
subsequent laborers.  As no better man advances to take this matter in hand,
succession, lighting one from the other to the end of the chapter; then
sufficiently proclaimed him an inheritor of the unvitiated blood of those
suitable circumstances, would break out from its confinement, and burn all his
sunrise.  Soon the crew came on board in twos and threes; the riggers
superfluousness.  But this, his thinness, so to speak, seemed no more the
superstitions of some of the earlier Puritans, and half believed this wild
superstitiousness, as has been said; the courage of this Starbuck which
surmise, which might tell eloquently upon his cause --such an advocate, would
tail, fanning into eddies the air over his head.  For what are the
take him fore and aft, he's about the queerest old man Stubb ever sailed
tame merchant-ship companies which my previous experiences had made me
task to catalogue all these things.  Let a handful suffice.  For many
tauntings in Job might well appal me.  Will he (the leviathan) make a covenant
tawny brawn of his lithe snaky limbs, you would almost have credited the
tearingly darts down it, and without wrenching a single twig, peels and
teeth, and violently moving away, as if to avoid some passionate temptation.
telling pantomime of action, and not a tame chapter of sounds.  Yet, for all
telling.  Whether he ever thought of it at all, might be a question; but, if
tempestuous term.  The land seemed scorching to his feet.  Wonderfullest
that I was in, I somehow seemed to be thinking to myself, that after all, it
that I would now fain put before you.  Yet is it no easy task.  The
that for, I should like to know?  Who's made appointments with him in the hold?
that had accompanied us began ranging alongside.  It was curious and not
that his presence was by no means necessary in getting the ship under weigh,
that in this business of whaling, courage was one of the great staple outfits
that morning, he was every day visible to the crew; either standing in his
that pyramid?"  With that, he all of a sudden seemed somehow, in some queer
that ship's direst jeopardy; she must fly all hospitality; one touch of
that that's bloody on his mind.  But, mum; he comes this way.
that the most reliable and useful courage was that which arises from the fair
that word careful precisely means when used by a man like Stubb, or almost
that, but moody stricken Ahab stood before them with a crucifixion in his
the Greenland or right-whale, he is the best existing authority.  But Scoresby
the Greenland whale is almost unworthy mentioning.  And here be it said, that
the Greenland whale is an usurper upon the throne of the seas.  He is not even
the Indies, his live blood would not spoil like bottled
the Pequod's boats as headsmen.  In that grand order of battle in which
the Pequod, Isolatoes too, I call such, not acknowledging the common
the after hold for, every night, as Dough-Boy tells me he suspects; what's
the air; but, as yet, for all that he said, or perceptibly did, on the at
the bottomless deeps, could he find the torn limbs of his brother?  With
the business of whaling is not accounted on a level with what are called the
the crew, were a far more barbaric, heathenish, and motley set than any of the
the fright.  "What am I about?" says I at last.  "And what business is that of
the green seas, and sent the shivering frost all over her, and the winds
the hand, and holding up a lantern, for a moment stood gazing heroically in
the jealous policy of the Spanish crown, touching those colonies; and, if
the lashed sea's landlessness again; for refuge's sake forlornly rushing into
the leeward land.  The port would fain give succor; the port is pitiful; in
the marchant service?  he roared.  Spring, thou sheep-head; spring, and
the muscles.  No small number of these whaling seamen belong to the Azores,
the now sacred retreat of the cabin.  Every time I ascended to the deck from my
the open air, that truly speaking, his visits were more to the cabin, than
the port is safety, comfort, hearthstone, supper, warm blankets, friends,
the present day not one in two of the many thousand men before the mast
the seclusion of the sea, became almost a perturbation.  This was strangely
the second mate's squire.  Third among the harpooneers was Daggoo, a gigantic,
the ship was rushing through the water with a vindictive sort of leaping and
the singular posture he maintained.  Upon each side of the Pequod's quarter
the son fitly replacing the infallible arrow of the sires.  To look at the
the spring, untrodden, unwilted, remains at midsummer.  At last we gained such
the thrones of the sea-loving Danish kings were fabricated, saith tradition,
the twenty-four; and he don't sleep then.  Didn't that Dough-Boy, the
the two, a close intimacy and friendliness; it is therefore but meet, that in
the whale, the great Cuvier, and John Hunter, and Lesson, those lights of
their functions is gone through.  There is a saltcellar of state, so called,
their long keen whaling spears, they were as a picked trio of lancers; even
their slumbering shipmates; when this sort of steady quietude would begin to
them the monarch of the seas.  But the time has at last come for a new
them the way, and first interpreted between them and the savages.  They may
themselves are poor devils; they have no good blood in their veins.  No good
themselves on deck for a considerable time after heaving up the anchor, but
then can it possibly be, but sperm oil in its unmanufactured, unpolluted
then it came upon him, not in the fury of any mortal fray, but in an
then revolved over once or twice; then sat up and rubbed his eyes.  Holloa!
then, no one could say nay; but there might be some way of muffling the
there's something on his mind, as sure as there must be something on a deck
these three headsmen were as captains of companies.  Or, being armed with
they said --therefore, Captain Ahab stayed below.  And all this seemed natural
they seemed to be the only commanders of the ship; only they sometimes issued
things are ever the unmentionable; deep memories yield no epitaphs; this
things should fail in latently engendering an element in him, which, under
things, made Stubb such an easygoing, unfearing man, so cheerily trudging off
this frigid
this narrow scuttle, to go to my grave-dug berth.  So, almost every
this place we set down who the Pequod's harpooneers were, and to what
this plaguey juggling thinks over by day-light.
this, you still declare that whaling has no aesthetically noble associations
thou green pants.  Spring, I say, all of ye, and spring your eyes out!  And
though a baked brick had been on it?  A hot old man!  I guess he's got what
though mostly confined to scientific description.  As yet, however, the sperm
thought Starbuck, I am here in this critical ocean to kill whales for my
three chief officers of the ship, the mates, which was most forcibly
through life.  A staid, steadfast man, whose life for the most part was a
through.  With all her might she crowds all sail off shore; in so doing,
thunder him higher than a throne!  Thou who, in all Thy mighty, earthly
till it disappeared in his clothing, you saw a slender rod-like mark, lividly
time I ever did pray.  It's queer; very queer; and he's queer too; aye,
times these things bent the welded iron of his soul, much more did his
to English South-Sea whale-ships, and both exact and reliable men.  The
to charm him from his mood.  For, as when the red-cheeked, dancing girls,
to expose the fall of valor in the soul.  Men may seem detestable as joint
to pile themselves upon.  Nevertheless, ere long, the warm, warbling
to smile at the solemn whimsicalities of that outlandish prophet of the
to stash it; so here goes to hammock again; and in the morning, I'll see how
to throw their costliest robes.  That immaculate manliness we feel within
to windward; looked towards the wide and endless waters, only bounded by the
to.  And so saying he went on deck, and we followed.  It was now clear
token of wasting anxieties and cares, than it seemed the indication of any
top of that!  He might as well have kicked me, and done with it.  Maybe he
torrid sun, like a patent chronometer, his interior vitality was warranted to
touch that workman's arm with some ethereal light; if I shall spread a
tripod of bones, without bethinking him of the royalty it symbolized?  For a
trouble in order to kill and boil.  This ignorant, unconscious fearlessness of
tumble aloft, and bestir themselves there, about something which he would find
twenty-four hours, when the watches of the night were set, and the band on
ultimate generalizing purpose all these have written, the above cited extracts
unpitying lance coolly and off-handedly, as a whistling tinker his hammer.
unpleasing, how Peleg and Bildad were affected at this juncture, especially
unwittingly pay us the profoundest homage; yea, an all-abounding adoration!
upon one of those fast days for which his state is famous.  Only some thirty
upon the soul, especially when the still mild hours of eve came on; then,
upon the whole broad world, taken in one aggregate, than the high and mighty
upon the whole, a man might rather have done than to have left undone; if, at
vapor now completely filling the contracted hole, it began to tell upon him.
various species, or-- in this place at least --to much of any description.  My
very point of starting for the voyage, Captain Peleg and Captain Bildad were
visible hands; I am in earnest; and I will try.  There are some
visible in some intrepid men, which, while generally abiding firm in the
visible; for my first vague disquietude touching the unknown captain, now in
vocation amounts to a butchering sort of business; and that when actively
wad me that fashion?  But go thy ways; I had forgot.  Below to thy nightly
was Tashtego, an unmixed Indian from Gay Head, the most westerly promontory of
was a native of Cape Cod; and hence, according to local usage, was called a
was a sort of point of honor with him, to destroy them whenever encountered.
was carried on between Europe and the long line of the opulent Spanish
was not in reasonable nature that a man so organized, and with such terrible
was not much of an insult, that kick from ahab.  "Why," thinks I,"what's the
was on him too deep for common regardings; and as with heavy, lumber-like
was there, though hitherto unseen by any eyes not permitted to penetrate into
was up, the sails were set, and off we glided.  It was a short, cold
was, and mind ye, if-- Come, come, Captain Bildad; stop palavering, --away!
watch, so soon as I levelled my glance towards the taffrail, foreboding
watches below, I instantly gazed aft to mark if any strange face were
whale, scientific or poetic, lives not complete in any literature.  Far above
whale-boat as if the most deadly encounter were but a dinner, and his crew
whaleboat, with her last gift --a night-cap for Stubb, the second mate, her
whaleboning that he gave me --not a base kick.  Besides," thinks I,"look at it
whalemen supply your kings and queens with coronation stuff!
whales need some sort of popular comprehensive classification, if only an easy
whales.  many are the men, small and great, old and new, landsmen and seamen,
whaling preparatives needing supervision the mates were fully competent to,
whaling ships from Dunkirk, and politely invite to that town some score or two
whaling.  No dignity in whaling?  The dignity of our calling the very
whaling; for a whale-ship was my Yale College and my Harvard.
whaling?  But this is not the half; look again.  I freely assert, that the
wharves.  But whatever it was of apprehensiveness or uneasiness --to call it so
what have you to complain of?  Didn't he kick with right good will?  it wasn't
when I felt a sudden sharp poke in my rear, and turning round, was horrified
when it cracks.  He aint in his bed now, either, more than three hours out of
when the fire has overrunningly wasted all the limbs without consuming them,
where the outward bound Nantucket whalers frequently touch to augment their
whereas, if a broad footed farmer kicked me, there's a devilish broad insult.
which I had so abandonedly embarked.  But it was especially the aspect of the
which an old shipmate sailed as captain; a man almost as old as he, once
which had no chart, where no Cook or Vancouver had ever sailed.  If American
which, it seemed, had in its two uses both brained his foes and soothed his
which, on all hands, radiates without end from God; Himself!  The great God
which, upon the whole, will triumphantly plant the sperm whale-ship at least
whiffs, as if, like the dying whale, my final jets were the strongest and
while leaning over the bulwarks; and then, as had been usual with him of
whitish.  It resembled that perpendicular seam sometimes made in the
wilfulness, in the fixed and fearless, forward dedication of that glance.  Not
will be due; for already she is on the threshold.  But if, in the face of all
will show.  Of the names in this list of whale authors, only those following
winter night in the boisterous Atlantic, spite of my wet feet and wetter
wise man of me, Flask.  D'ye see Ahab standing there, sideways looking over the
with a view of making its interior run well, as they anoint machinery?  Much
with him, or whether it was the scar left by some desperate wound, no one
with the burden of life in a world full of grave peddlers, all bowed to the
with thee?  Behold the hope of him is vain!  But I have swam through
with.  How he flashed at me! --his eyes like powder-pans!  is he mad?  Anyway
wonders of God!  But, though the world scouts at us whale hunters, yet does it
wondrous whale was but a species of magnified mouse, or at least water-rat,
world declines honoring us whalemen, is this: they think that, at best, our
world's capital, the bones of a whale, brought all the way from the Syrian
world, if only to fall right asleep.  And now that I think of it, that's
would almost as soon have expected him to turn out of his bunk without his
would fain advance naught but substantiated facts.  But after embattling his
would have been the reverberating crack and din of that bony step, that their
would sink the ship before the anchor could be got up; involuntarily I paused
ye see a white one, split your lungs for him!  What d'ye think of that now,
ye--there's something special in the wind.  Stand by for it, Flask.  Ahab has
years
years past the whale-ship has been the pioneer in ferreting out the remotest
yes, I can.  As for Peleg himself, he took it more like a philosopher; but
yet lingering images of those thousand-fold perils he had calmly confronted
yet of books there are
your hat in presence of the Czar, and take it off to Queequeg!  No more!  I
yours, I should like to know, Mr. Humpback?  Do you want a
youth Daggoo had voluntarily shipped on board of a whaler, lying in a lonely
zoology and anatomy.  Nevertheless, though of real knowledge there be little,
