
























































































































































     A day or two passed, and there was great
     Aft here, ye sons of bachelors, he cried, as the sailors lingered at the
     Ain't that queer, now?  But there's no telling, it's the old game --Here goes
     All about it, eh --sure you do? --all?  Pretty sure.  With finger pointed
     Already we are boldly launched upon the
     As Queequeg and I are now fairly embarked
     As Queequeg's Ramadan, or Fasting and
     As we were walking down the end of the wharf
     At length, towards noon, upon the
     Aye, aye, said Stubb, the second mate, Starbuck, there, is as careful a
     Because it's dangerous, says she.  Ever since young Stiggs coming from that
     But come, it's getting dreadful late, you had better be turning flukes --it's
     But here is an artist.  He desires to paint you the dreamiest, shadiest,
     But this insult is whittled down to a point only."  But now comes the
     Call me Ishmael.  Some years ago--never mind how
     Come hither to me --hither, hither, said Peleg, with a significance in his
     Come on, Queequeg, said I, all right.  There's Mrs. Hussey.
     Do you pretend to say, landlord, that this harpooneer is actually engaged
     Don't be afraid now, said he, grinning again.  Queequeg here wouldn't harm
     Dropping his harpoon, the brawny savage caught him in his arms, and by an
     Elijah.  Elijah!  thought I, and we walked away, both commenting, after
     Entering that gable-ended Spouter-Inn,
     Every once and a while Peleg came hobbling out of his whalebone den, roaring
     Father Mapple rose, and in a mild voice of
     Fiery pit!  fiery pit!  ye insult me, man; past all natural bearing, ye
     First Congregational Church, cried Bildad, what!  that worships in Deacon
     For several days after leaving Nantucket,
     For the instant he almost turns to flee again.  But he rallies.  "I seek a
     For this reason a sleeping apartment should never be furnished with a fire,
     God!  who didst not refuse to the swart convict, Bunyan, the pale, poetic
     Grub, ho!  now cried the landlord, flinging open a door, and in we went to
     Hallo, you sir, cried the Captain, a gaunt rib of the sea, stalking up to
     He rings every coin to find a counterfeit.  Not a forger, any way, he mutters;
     He say, said I, that you came near kill-e that man there, pointing to the
     He skulks about the wharves of Joppa, and seeks a ship that's bound for
     I am the architect, not the builder.  But it is a ponderous task; no ordinary
     I don't know anything about Deacon Deuteronomy or his meeeting, said I,
     I endeavored to prevail upon Queequeg to take a chair; but in vain.  There
     I had heard something of both Captain Peleg and his unaccountable old crony
     I had not been seated very long ere a man
     I quickly followed suit, and descending into
     I stuffed a shirt or two into my old
     I succeeded in extracting a grunt; and presently, he drew back his arm,
     If I had been astonished at first catching a
     In bed we concocted our plans for the morrow.
     In behalf of the dignity of whaling, I
     In this same New Bedford there stands a
     It was nearly six o'clock, but only grey
     It was quite late in the evening when the
     It's very queer.  Stop, Stubb; somehow, now, I don't well know whether to go
     Landlord, said I, going up to him as cool as Mt.  Hecla in a snow storm,
     Life was what Captain Ahab and I was thinking of; and how to save all hands
     Little Flask was one of the wrought ones; made to clinch tight and last
     Look ye; when captain Ahab is all right, then this left arm of mine will be
     Man the capstan!  Blood and thunder! --jump! --was the next command, and the
     Mast-head, there!  Look sharp, all of ye!  There are whales hereabouts!  If
     My friend, said I, what all this gibberish of yours is about, I don't
     Nantucket.  So down we went into the cabin, and to my great joy Queequeg
     Next morning Stubb accosted Flask.  Such a
     No, sir; not yet, said Stubb, emboldened, I will not tamely be called a
     Nothing more happened on the passage worthy
     Peleg!  Peleg!  said Bildad, lifting his eyes and hands, thou thyself, as
     Queequeg was a native of Kokovoko, an
     Queequeg! --but his only answer was a snore.  I then rolled over, my neck
     Quick, I say, you Bildad, and get the ship's papers.  We must have Hedgehog
     Returning to the Spouter-Inn from the
     Right and left, the streets take you waterward.  Its extreme down-town is
     See if you can find 'em now, will ye?  Find who?  Morning to ye!  morning
     Shipmates, have ye shipped in that ship?
     Some chapters back, one Bulkington was
     Some days elapsed, and ice
     Stepping to the kitchen door, I uttered the word cod with great emphasis,
     Stop!  cried the stranger.  Ye said true --ye hav'n't seen Old Thunder yet,
     Stubb was the second mate.  He
     That ship, my friends, was the first of recorded smugglers!  the contraband
     That's true, that's true --yes, both true enough.  But you must jump when he
     The chief mate of the Pequod was
     This is my substitute for pistol and ball.  With a philosophical flourish
     Thou knowest best, was the sepulchral reply, the seven hundred and
     Upon waking next morning about daylight,
     Very dim, very dim, said Elijah.  Morning to ye.  Once more we quitted him;
     We had lain thus in bed, chatting and
     Well, Captain Bildad, interrupted Peleg, what d'ye say, what lay shall we
     Whaling not respectable?  Whaling is imperial!  By old English statutory
     What do you mean, sir?  Was the other one lost by a whale?  Lost by a whale!
     When Stubb had departed, Ahab stood for a
     When close to the whale, in the very death-lock of the fight, he handled his
     When on that shivering winter's night, the Pequod thrust her vindictive bows
     Who is Captain Ahab, sir?  Aye, aye, I thought so.  Captain Ahab is the
     With heads to be sure; ain't there too many heads in the world?  I tell
     Woe to him who, in this world, courts not dishonor!  Woe to him who would not
     Yes, I thought I did see four or five men; but it was too dim to be sure.
     You mean the ship Pequod, I suppose, said I, trying to gain a little more
     Young man, come nearer to me: it was devoured, chewed up, crunched by the
     a mature man who uses hair-oil, unless medicinally, that man has probably got
     accidental advantages, to learn a bold and nervous lofty language --that man
     all I know is, that Queequeg here is a born member of the First
     and
     and Jonah is put down for his passage.  "Point out my state-room, Sir," says
     and on that side of it retraced our steps.  But Elijah passed on, without
     and seated himself at a little table.  I began to think it was high time to
     and self-created darkness into the imposed and coarse outer gloom of the
     and without a passport; whereas Virtue, if a pauper, is stopped at all
     blazes!  he called me ten times a donkey, and piled a lot of jackasses on
     blood in their veins?  They have something better than royal blood there.
     clam for two, disappeared.  Queequeg, said I, do you think that we can
     deck, where we followed him.  There he stood, very quietly overlooking some
     deep itself.  The Nantucketer, he alone resides and riots on the sea; he
     did kick me, and I didn't observe it, I was so taken all aback with his brow,
     dollars; and every year importing into our harbors a well reaped harvest of 00847,000,000 dollars.  How comes all this, if there be not something puissant in
     famous author, and whaling no famous chronicler?  Who wrote the first
     for a snooze.  Damn me, it's worth a fellow's while to be born into the
     hand, whereas I had understood Peter Coffin to say it was on the starboard.
     he breathed at last, who be ye smokers?  Shipped men, answered I, when
     her original grotesqueness, and inlaid it, all over, with a quaintness both
     here needs the grindstone.  That's he; thank ye, Bildad.  Now then, my young
     himself with this, that spite of all his pains and pangs, he will still
     his sake this great tempest was upon them; they mercifully turn from him,
     his totality.  But the only thing to be considered here, is this --what kind
     in that we all join hands.  Splice, thou mean'st splice hands, cried
     infallibly straight itself, it but made obvious the false, lying levels
     it's better to sail with a moody good captain than a laughing bad one.  So
     lays, and that these lays were proportioned to the degree of importance
     leg, didn't he?" "Yes, he did," says I. "Well then," says he, "wise Stubb,
     one arm elevated, and holding by a shroud; Captain Ahab stood erect, looking
     one way nor the other way, but sat like a carved image with scarce a sign of
     pay to her whalemen in bounties upwards of 1,000,000
     pounds?  And lastly, how comes it that we whalemen of America now outnumber
     resisted.  Running down stairs, I quickly stated my suspicions to the first
     that come to pass; ere the Pequod's weedy hull rolls side by side with the
     that they are so shut up, belted about, every way inclosed, surrounded, and
     the island.  On one side was a coral reef; on the other a low tongue of
     the whale shall hold him in the smallest of his bowel's wards.  Screwed at
     them tragic graces; if even the most mournful, perchance the most abased,
     they came with an indifferent air; and while engaged in the most imminent
     though he twitched a little as if still nervously agitated.  Whew!  he
     thy last Captain, didst thou? --Dost not think of murdering the officers when
     to be regarded among landsmen as a rather unpoetical and disreputable
     what you tink now, --Didn't our people laugh?  At last, passage paid, and
     wheelbarrow next morning, Monday, after disposing of
     which a noah's flood would not interrupt, though it overwhelmed all the
     which way to it?  Run for God's sake, and fetch something to pry open the
     who have at large or in little, written of the whale.  Run over a few: --The
     you never saw such a rare old craft as this same rare old Pequod.  She was a
     your boast, Stubb, that ye were kicked by old Ahab, and made a wise man of.
"Halloa," says I,"what's the matter now, old fellow?" "Look ye here," says
'em!  Morning to ye, shipmates, morning; the ineffable heavens bless ye; I'm
(sperm whale), says Surgeon Beale, A. D.
,
, Linnaeus declares, I hereby separate the whales
-- The Spouter-Inn: --Peter Coffin.  Coffin? --Spouter? --Rather ominous in that
-- The ribs and terrors in the whale, Arched over me a dismal gloom, While
-- come along with ye.  And so saying, he led the way below deck into the
-- he hunted up his boots.  What under the heavens he did it for, I cannot
-- landlord, stop whittling.  You and I must understand one another, and
--How?  how?  how? --but the only way's
--and Yojo had told him two or three times over, and strongly insisted upon it
--and with that she seized my arm.  What's the matter with you?  What's the
--but never mind, never mind --it's all one, all in the family too; --sharp
--chiefly known to me by Thy rod --mortal or immortal, here I die.  I have
--ever been in a stove boat?  No, Sir, I never have.  Dost know nothing at
--good luck to 'em; and they are all the better off for it.  A soul's a sort
--he would mutter to himself, -- for an old captain like me to be descending
--here, here lies my beloved; ye know not the desolation that broods in bosoms
--how to rig jury-masts -- how to get into the nearest port; that was what I
--might as well kill both birds at once.  Kill?  The Lord be merciful to his
--now a word below, and now a word with Starbuck, the chief mate.  But, at
--say your last.  Luck to ye, Starbuck --luck to ye, Mr. Stubb --luck to ye,
--something like me --only there's a good deal more of him.  Aye, aye, I know
--the Tyre of this Carthage; --the place where the first dead American whale
--this day darting the barbed iron from one side of the world to the other.
--top-gallant delight is to him, who acknowledges no law or lord, but the
--under the bed; when, from sundry violent
--which I felt, yet whenever I came to look about me in the ship, it seemed
--worse nor a toothache.  Well, well; I don't know what it is, but the Lord
--yes, he's the bird what catches the worm. --But to-night he went out a
.  It is not my intention, were it in my power, to enter
.  This Marble Is
.  This Tablet Is erected to his
.  Unfitness to pursue our
.. < chapter I 2  LOOMINGS >
.. < chapter X 24  A BOSOM FRIEND >
.. < chapter ii 24  THE CARPET-BAG >
.. < chapter iii 14  THE SPOUTER-INN >
.. < chapter iv 2  THE COUNTERPANE >
.. < chapter ix 23  THE SERMON >
.. < chapter v 5  BREAKFAST >
.. < chapter vi 11  THE STREET >
.. < chapter vii 26  THE CHAPEL >
.. < chapter viii 2  THE PULPIT >
.. < chapter xi 24  NIGHTGOWN >
.. < chapter xii 21  BIOGRAPHICAL >
.. < chapter xiii 2  WHEELBARROW >
.. < chapter xiv 23  NANTUCKET >
.. < chapter xix 2  THE PROPHET >
.. < chapter xv 27  CHOWDER >
.. < chapter xvi 2  THE SHIP >
.. < chapter xvii 2  THE RAMADAN >
.. < chapter xviii 2  HIS MARK >
.. < chapter xx 15  ALL ASTIR >
.. < chapter xxi 2  GOING ABOARD >
.. < chapter xxii 12  MERRY CHRISTMAS >
.. < chapter xxiii 28  THE LEE SHORE >
.. < chapter xxiv 2  THE ADVOCATE >
.. < chapter xxix 2  ENTER AHAB; TO HIM, STUBB >
.. < chapter xxv 27  POSTSCRIPT >
.. < chapter xxvi 26  KNIGHTS AND SQUIRES >
.. < chapter xxvii 2  KNIGHTS AND SQUIRES >
.. < chapter xxviii 11  AHAB >
.. < chapter xxx 4  THE PIPE >
.. < chapter xxxi 2  QUEEN MAB >
.. < chapter xxxii 6  CETOLOGY >
.. <p 10 >
.. <p 10 >
.. <p 100 >
.. <p 100 >
.. <p 101 >
.. <p 102 >
.. <p 103 >
.. <p 104 >
.. <p 104 >
.. <p 105 >
.. <p 106 >
.. <p 107 >
.. <p 108 >
.. <p 109 >
.. <p 109n. >
.. <p 11 >
.. <p 110 >
.. <p 110 >
.. <p 110n. >
.. <p 111 >
.. <p 111 >
.. <p 112 >
.. <p 113 >
.. <p 114 >
.. <p 115 >
.. <p 116 >
.. <p 117 >
.. <p 118 >
.. <p 119 >
.. <p 119 >
.. <p 12 >
.. <p 120 >
.. <p 121 >
.. <p 122 >
.. <p 123 >
.. <p 124 >
.. <p 125 >
.. <p 126 >
.. <p 126 >
.. <p 127 >
.. <p 128 >
.. <p 129 >
.. <p 129 >
.. <p 13 >
.. <p 130 >
.. <p 131 >
.. <p 14 >
.. <p 15 >
.. <p 16 >
.. <p 17 >
.. <p 18 >
.. <p 19 >
.. <p 2 >
.. <p 20 >
.. <p 21 >
.. <p 22 >
.. <p 23 >
.. <p 24 >
.. <p 25 >
.. <p 26 >
.. <p 27 >
.. <p 28 >
.. <p 29 >
.. <p 29 >
.. <p 3 >
.. <p 30 >
.. <p 31 >
.. <p 31 >
.. <p 32 >
.. <p 33 >
.. <p 34 >
.. <p 35 >
.. <p 36 >
.. <p 37 >
.. <p 38 >
.. <p 39 >
.. <p 4 >
.. <p 40 >
.. <p 41 >
.. <p 42 >
.. <p 43 >
.. <p 44 >
.. <p 45 >
.. <p 46 >
.. <p 47 >
.. <p 48 >
.. <p 48 >
.. <p 49 >
.. <p 5 >
.. <p 50 >
.. <p 51 >
.. <p 52 >
.. <p 52 >
.. <p 53 >
.. <p 54 >
.. <p 54 >
.. <p 55 >
.. <p 56 >
.. <p 57 >
.. <p 58 >
.. <p 59 >
.. <p 6 >
.. <p 6 >
.. <p 60 >
.. <p 61 >
.. <p 61 >
.. <p 62 >
.. <p 63 >
.. <p 63 >
.. <p 64 >
.. <p 65 >
.. <p 66 >
.. <p 67 >
.. <p 68 >
.. <p 69 >
.. <p 7 >
.. <p 70 >
.. <p 71 >
.. <p 72 >
.. <p 73 >
.. <p 74 >
.. <p 75 >
.. <p 76 >
.. <p 77 >
.. <p 78 >
.. <p 79 >
.. <p 8 >
.. <p 80 >
.. <p 81 >
.. <p 82 >
.. <p 83 >
.. <p 84 >
.. <p 85 >
.. <p 86 >
.. <p 87 >
.. <p 88 >
.. <p 89 >
.. <p 9 >
.. <p 90 >
.. <p 91 >
.. <p 92 >
.. <p 93 >
.. <p 94 >
.. <p 94 >
.. <p 95 >
.. <p 96 >
.. <p 97 >
.. <p 98 >
.. <p 99 >
Affghanistan.  Though I cannot tell why it was exactly that those stage
Africa, Nantucket, and the pagan harbors most frequented by whalemen; and
Africa, which was the sum of poor Mungo's performances -- this kind of travel,
After
Ahab lurchingly paced the planks.
Ahab of old, thou knowest, was a crowned king!  And a very vile one.  When
Ahab should be tranquilly laid out --which might hardly come to pass, so he
Ahab well; I've sailed with him as mate years ago; I know what he is--a
Ahab.  But nothing about that thing that happened to him off Cape Horn, long
Ahab.  Some moments passed, during which the thick vapor came from his mouth
Ahasuerus Daggoo, was the Squire of little Flask, who looked like a chess-man
Almighty's bidding.  And what was that, shipmates?  To preach the Truth to the
Anacharsis Clootz deputation from all the
And all these subtle agencies, more and more they wrought on Ahab's texture.
And as for the matter of the alleged uncleanliness of our business, ye shall
And so it turned out; Mr. Hosea Hussey being from home, but leaving Mrs.
And, after signing the papers, off I went; nothing doubting but that I had
Any how, young man, he won't always see me, so I don't suppose he will thee.
Any subsequent copies of this data must include this notice  
April and May, trip home to the wintry, misanthropic woods; even the barest,
Arctic whalers; and which by the means of many radiating side timbers
At last, he emerged with his hat very much dented and crushed down over his
Atlantic, Pacific, and Indian oceans.  One and all, they were harpooned and
Australian settlement, the emigrants were several times saved
Author of Miriam Coffin; Olmstead; and the Rev.  T. Cheever.  But to what
Authors of the Bible; Aristotle; Pliny; Aldrovandi; Sir Thomas Browne;
Bedford.  It was on a Saturday night in December.  Much was I disappointed
Bell, and the hideous dragon; turn from the wrath to come; mind thine eye,
Between the marble cenotaphs on either hand of the pulpit, the wall which
Bildad --come, old shipmate, we must go.  Back the main-yard there!  Boat ahoy!
Bildad lingered long; paced the deck with anxious strides" ran down into the
Bildad, but with a marvellous oblique, sliding celerity, Bildad for that
Bildad, he carried about with him a long list of the articles needed, and at
Bildad, if I had followed thy advice in these matters, I would afore now had
Bildad, said Peleg, he wants to ship.  Dost thee?  said Bildad, in a
Bildad, who always sat so, and never leaned, and this to save his coat
Bildad, who, with Peleg, be it known, in addition to his other offices, was
Bildad, without noticing his present irreverence, quietly looked up, and
Bildad; how that they being the principal proprietors of the Pequod,
Bildad?  As if long habituated to such profane talk from his old shipmate,
Brighggians, and, besides the wild specimens of the whaling-craft which
Brisson; Marten; Lacepede; Bonneterre; Desmarest; Baron Cuvier; Frederick
Broadway and Chestnut streets, Mediterranean mariners will sometimes jostle
Bulkington!  Bulkington!  where's Bulkington?  and darted out of the house in
But I said nothing, only looking round me sharply.  Peleg now threw open a
But poorly could I withstand them, much as in other moods I was almost ready
But that was certainly very coolly done by him, and every
But though the other boarders kept coming in by ones, twos, and threes, and
But to my surprise and no small concern, Queequeg now gave me to understand,
But when a man suspects any wrong, it sometimes happens that if he be
Canaan stood, While Jordan rolled between.  Never did those sweet words sound
Canaan; a land, also, of corn and wine.  The streets do not run with milk;
Canterbury Cathedral where Beckett bled.  But to all these her old
Cape Horn, no commerce but colonial, scarcely any intercourse but colonial,
Cape-Cod-man.  A happy-go-lucky; neither craven nor valiant; taking perils as
Captain Ahab is all ready --just spoke to him --nothing more to be got from
Captain Ahab remained invisibly enshrined within his cabin.
Captain Ahab would probably marshal his forces to descend on the whales,
Captain Ahab, no sign of him was yet to be seen; Only, they said he was in the
Captain Ahab?
Captain Bildad.  For loath to depart, yet; very loath to leave, for good, a
Captain Peleg was one of the largest owners of the vessel; the other shares,
Captain Peleg.  Well, bring him along then.
Captain himself.  Thou art speaking to Captain Peleg --that's who ye are
Captain in the cabin, all the sailors for the moment desist from hoisting in
Captain laughs lowly to himself, and mutters something about the doors of
Captain of the Pequod, what dost thou want of him?  he demanded.  I was
Captain of this ship.  I am mistaken then.  I thought I was speaking to the
Cato throws himself upon his sword; I quietly take to the ship.  There is
Chapel, I found Queequeg there quite alone; he having left the Chapel before
Charity --Aunt Charity, as everybody called her.  And like a sister of
Christian would have washed his face; but Queequeg, to my amazement,
Christians could be both miserable and wicked; infinitely more so, than all
Christmas; and as the short northern day merged into night, we found
Church.  How then could I unite with
Commodore, or a Captain, or a Cook.  I abandon the glory and distinction of
Congregational Church.  He is a deacon himself, Queequeg is.  Young man,
Crossed Harpoons, and The Sword-Fish? --this, then, must needs be the sign
Crossing this dusky entry, and on through yon low-arched way --cut through
Cuvier; John Hunter; Owen; Scoresby; Beale; Bennett; J. Ross Browne; the
Delightful inducements to embark, fine chance for promotion, it seems -- aye,
Desolation, off Patagonia, November 1st,
Deuteronomy --why Father Mapple himself couldn't beat it, and he's reckoned
Deuteronomy Coleman's meeting-house?  and so saying, taking out his
Dives, this is more wonderful than that an iceberg should be moored to one of
Don't stave the boats needlessly, ye harpooneers; good white cedar plank is
Eddystone lighthouse.  Look at it --a mere hillock, and elbow of sand; all
Elijah, that I consider you a little impertinent?  No, no, no; I wasn't
England hags, had endeavored to delineate chaos bewitched.  But by dint of
English overswarm all India, and hang out their blazing banner from the sun;
Entering, I found a small scattered congregation of sailors, and sailors'
Eternity.  But what then?  Methinks we have hugely mistaken this matter of
Etymology  (Supplied by a late consumptive usher to a grammar school.)
Extracts (supplied by a sub-sub-librarian.)
Fill to this mark, and your charge is but a penny; to this a penny more;
First Congregation of this whole worshipping world; we all belong to that;
Fishiest of all fishy places was the Try Pots, which well deserved its name;
Flask?  ain't there a small drop
For by how much the more pains ye take to please the world,
French grenadier's, who has alike fought in Egypt and Siberia.  Her
Gesner; Ray; Linnaeus; Rondeletius; Willoughby; Green; Artedi; Sibbald;
Glimpses do ye seem to see of that mortally intolerable truth; that all deep,
God came upon him in the whale, and swallowed him down to living gulfs of
God of breezes fair or foul is first invoked for favorable winds.  Yes, the
God's sake, run for the doctor, some one, while I pry it open!  Look here,
God.  Now, Queequeg is my fellow man.  And what do I wish that this Queequeg
Going forward to the forecastle, we found the slide of the scuttle open.
Good again; but then all confess that somehow whaling is not respectable.
Good-bye, good-bye!  Don't keep that cheese too long down in the hold, Mr.
Great, who, with his own royal pen, took down the words from Other, the
Greenland whale is deposed, --the great sperm whale now reigneth!  There are
Greenland whalers sailing out of Hull or London, put in at the Shetland
He answered no, not yet; and added that he was fearful Christianity, or
He breathed with a sort of muffledness; then seemed troubled in the nose;
He drooped and fell away from himself for a moment; then lifting his face to
He kept a whole row of pipes there ready loaded, stuck in a rack, within easy
He loved to dust his old grammars; it somehow mildly reminded him of his mortality.
He now took off his hat --a new beaver hat --when I came nigh singing out with
He put his hand upon the sleeper's rear, as though feeling if it was soft
He seemed to take to me quite as naturally and unbiddenly as I to him; and
He was ever  dusting his old lexicons and grammars, with a queer handkerchief,
He would hum over his old rigadig tunes while flank and flank with the most
He's a queer man, Captain Ahab --so some think --but a good one.  Oh, thou'lt
His father was a High Chief, a King; his uncle a High Priest; and on the
Horn, that is --which was the only way he could get there --thrown among people
How then is this?  Are the green fields gone?  What do they here?  But look!
However, by dint of beating about a little in the dark, and now and then
However, my thoughts were at length carried in other directions, so that for
Humiliation, was to continue all day, I did not choose to disturb him till
Hussey entirely competent to attend to all his affairs.  Upon making known our
Hussey hurried towards an open door leading to the kitchen, and bawling out
Hussey's clam and cod announcement, I thought I would try a little experiment.
Hussey, said I, he's alive at all events; so leave us, if you please, and
I began to be sensible of strange feelings.  I felt a melting in me.  No
I bolted a dinner.  Even as it was, I thought something of slipping out of the
I called my God, When I could scarce believe him mine, He bowed his ear to my
I cannot say much for his breeding.  His greatest admirer could not have
I concluded that it must be nothing but a wooden idol, which indeed it
I could not get into the faintest doze.  I had blown out the candle; and the
I do but less than half like it, sir.  Avast!  gritted Ahab between his set
I dreamed he kicked me with it; and when I tried to kick back, upon my soul,
I found Queequeg's arm thrown over me in the most loving and affectionate
I guess he's the adulterer that broke jail in old Gomorrah, or belike, one of
I had found thrown over me upon waking in the morning, I thought this
I hereupon offer my own poor endeavors.  I promise nothing complete; because
I kill-e!  again growled the cannibal, while his horrid flourishings of the
I left the ship the day previous; and the prediction of the squaw Tistig;
I myself, hast seen many a perilous time; thou knowest, Peleg, what it is to
I observed that he carried no umbrella, and certainly had not come in his
I say this continual smoking must have been one cause, at least, of his
I say, may not be the very best mode of attaining a high social polish.
I say; oh!  goodness gracious!  steer clear of the fiery pit!  Something of
I softly through the key-hole: --all silent.  I say, Queequeg!  why don't you
I stepped aside from the door to give egress to Bildad, who, I made no doubt,
I then asked Queequeg whether he himself was ever troubled with dyspepsia;
I thought that the 275th lay would be about the fair thing, but would not
I thought.  If ye touch at the islands, Mr. Flask, beware of fornication.
I told him that I never liked to sleep two in a bed; that if I should ever do
I told him that whaling was my own design, and informed him of my intention
I was already aware that in the whaling business they paid no wages; but all
I was also aware that being a green hand at whaling, my own lay would not be
I was going to ask him some further questions concerning Ahab, when we heard a
I well remember a somewhat similar circumstance that befell me; whether it
I went up stairs to go to bed, feeling quite sure by this time Queequeg must
I will see to this strange affair myself.  Closing the door upon the landlady,
I've heard that he's a good whale-hunter, and a good captain to his crew.
I, Captain Peleg must have been drinking something to-day.  At last the anchor
I, Queequeg, you might have known better than that, one would think.  Didn't
I.  He's got enough, though, to make up for all deficiencies of that sort in
Iceland --no fire at all  --the landlord said he couldn't afford it.  Nothing
Ignorance is the parent of fear, and being completely nonplussed and
In what census of living creatures, the dead of mankind are included; why it
Indian Ocean or Pacific, who fail to make a Sunday visit to the spot.  I am
Indian to be a son of the Prince of the Powers of the Air.  Tashtego was Stubb
Insurance Companies pay death-forfeitures upon immortals; in what eternal,
Ishmael, said I at last; don't you hear?  get away from before the door;
Islanders seem to make the best whalemen.  They were nearly all Islanders in
Islands, to receive the full complement of their crew.  Upon the passage
It was prepared by Professor Eugene F. Irey at the University of Colorado.
It was so with Ahab; only that now, of late, he seemed so much to live in
It will be seen that this mere painstaking burrower and grubworm of a poor 
Jackson from the pebbles; who didst hurl him upon a war-horse; who didst
Japanese junks; butter-box galliots, and what not; but take my word for it,
Johnny in the foot of it.  But I got a dreaming and sprawling about one night,
Jonah -- And God had prepared a great fish to swallow up Jonah.  Shipmates,
Jonah before you to be copied for his sin but I do place him before you as a
Jonah fairly takes out his purse, prudent suspicions still molest the Captain.
Jonah now.  "I'm travel-weary; I need sleep." "Thou look'st like it," says
Jonah sees the rearing bowsprit pointing high upward, but soon beat downward
Jonah's prodigy of ponderous misery drags him drowning down to sleep.  And
Jonah.  While he was speaking these words, the howling of the shrieking,
Joppa, the modern Jaffa, shipmates, is on the most easterly coast of the
Joppa.  But God is everywhere; Tarshish he never reached.  As we have seen,
Judgment then?  Hear him, hear him now, cried Peleg, marching across the
Khan of the plank, and a king of the sea, and a great lord of Leviathans was
King's own house --the Captain coolly proceeds to wash his hands in the punch
Krusenstern.  For in their succorless emptyhandedness, they, in the
Ledyard, the great New England traveller, and Mungo Park, the Scotch one; of
Lents, Ramadans, and prolonged ham-squattings in cold, cheerless rooms were
Leviathans had personally and hereditarily affronted him; and therefore it
Life and Death.  Methinks that what they call my shadow here on earth is my
Listen to what the best and latest authorities have laid down.  No branch of
Look now at the wondrous traditional story of how this island was settled by
Look there!  that chap strutting round the corner.  He wears a beaver hat and
Lord came a second time; and Jonah, bruised and beaten --his ears, like two
Lord his God, and is only a patriot to heaven.  Delight is to him, whom all
Mapple enjoyed such a wide reputation for sincerity and sanctity, that I
Martha's Vineyard, where there still exists the last remnant of a village of
Mary Folger, one of the old settlers of Nantucket, and the ancestress to a
Mastodon, clothed with such portentousness of unconscious power, that his
Meantime, overseeing the other part of the ship, Captain Peleg
Meanwhile, I lay quietly eyeing him, having no serious misgivings now, and
Meanwhile, he continued the business of undressing, and at last showed his
Mediterranean, the Syrian; and Tarshish or Cadiz more than two thousand miles
Memory By his Sister.  Sacred To the Memory of Robert Long, Willis Ellery,
Midships!  midships!  There was a low rumbling of heavy sea-boots among the
Mr. Flask --good-bye, and good luck to ye all --and this day three years I'll
Mrs. Hussey soon appeared, with a mustard-pot in one hand and a vinegar-cruet
My sensations were strange.  Let me try to explain them.  When I was a child,
Nantucket Quakerism, but all his subsequent ocean life, and the sight of many
Nantucket are carried about like bits of the true cross in Rome; that people
Nantucket!  Take out your map and look at it.  See what a real corner of the
Nathan Coleman, Walter Canny, Seth Macy, and Samuel Gleig, Forming one of the
Nevertheless, a man like Queequeg you don't see every day, he and his ways
Nevertheless, the old sea-traditions, the immemorial credulities, popularly
New Zealand head --a ghastly thing enough --and crammed it down into the bag.
Niagara but a cataract of sand, would you travel your thousand miles to see
No, thought I, there must be some sober reason for this thing; furthermore,
No.  They must get just as nigh the water as they possibly can without falling
Norwegian whale-hunter of those times!  And who pronounced our glowing eulogy
Now, Bildad, like Peleg, and indeed many other Nantucketers,
Oceans, and would prefer not to be detained.  Ye be, be ye?  Coming back
Oh, sweet friends!  hearken to me.  It was made of small juicy clams, scarcely
Oh, that's only nominal!  The whale himself has never figured in any grand
Old age is always wakeful; as if, the longer linked with life, the less man
One young fellow in a green box coat, addressed himself to these dumplings in
Owen ever saw living whales; and but one of them was a real professional
Pacific.  Quitting the good city of old Manhatto, I duly arrived in New
Pagan, which even his uncouthness could not altogether maim.  He looked like
Parliament sitting in Tophet.  A hundred black faces turned round in their
Peleg and Bildad, could attend to everything necessary to fit the vessel for
Peleg was vainly trying to mend a pen with his jack-knife, old Bildad, to my
Peleg's obstinate mistake touching his appellative, it stood something like
Peleg, at it again, Bildad, eh?  Ye have been studying those Scriptures,
Peleg, drawing nearer.  Young man, you'd better ship for a missionary,
Peleg, many years her chief-mate, before he commanded another vessel of his
Pequod fitted out for the voyage, and supplied with all her needs, including
Pequod was only making a passage now; not regularly cruising; nearly all
Pequod, --this old Peleg, during the term of his chief-mateship, had built upon
Pequod.  Never say it anywhere.  Captain Ahab did not name himself. 'Twas a
Pequod?  said I, advancing to the door of the tent.  Supposing it be the
Placing these on the old chest in the middle of the room, he then took the
Poland.  Let America add Mexico to Texas, and pile Cuba upon Canada; let the
Pottowotamie Sachem's head.  A triangular opening faced towards the bows of
Prairies in June,
Preliminary Matter.  
Projecting from the further angle of the room stands a dark-looking den --the
Puritanic sands.
Quakers; they are Quakers with a vengeance.  So that there are instances among
Queequeg and I had just left the Pequod, and were sauntering away from the
Queequeg made, staving about with little else but his hat and boots on; I
Queequeg no kill-e so small-e fish-e; Queequeg kill-e big whale!  Look you,
Queequeg placed great confidence in the excellence of Yojo's judgment and
Queequeg smoking by me, even in bed, because he seemed to be full of such
Queequeg was about to precede me up the stairs, the lady reached forth her
Queequeg's, or rather Yojo's, touching the selection of our craft; I did not
Queequeg, ain't that a live eel in your bowl?  Where's your harpoon?
Queequeg, as if he had been screwed down to the floor.  But as soon as the
Queequeg, don't sit there, said I. Oh!  perry dood seat, said Queequeg, my
Queequeg, for his own private reasons, preferred his own harpoon.  Shifting
Queequeg, then, fasting on his tomahawk pipe, and Yojo warming himself at
Queequeg, what in thunder do you mean by that?  Don't you know you might have
Queequeg, with the most unaccountable glances.  Elijah, said I, you will
Queequeg.  But not a word did he reply.  Despairing of him, therefore, I
Queequeg?  which, barred with various tints, seemed like the Andes' western
Railroads.  The same, I say, because in all these cases the native American
Ramadan, or day of fasting, humiliation, and prayer with Queequeg and Yojo
Reference to nearly all the leviathanic allusions in the great poets of past
Remember what I say; be kicked by him; account his kicks honors; and on no
Remembering the embalmed head, at first I almost thought that this black
Rensselaers, or Randolphs, or Hardicanutes.  And more than all, if just
Rokovoko, and its commander --from all accounts, a very stately punctilious
Saco.  What is the chief element he employs?  There stand his trees, each with
Sacred To the Memory of The late Captain Ezekiel Hardy, Who in the bows of
Saturday night clean into the holy Sabbath, engaged in such a cannibal
Scandinavian sea-king, or a poetical Pagan Roman.  And when these things unite
Scoresby, A. D.
Scriptural and domestic phrases.  Avast there, avast there, Bildad, avast now
See subsequent chapters for something more on this head.
See subsequent chapters for something more on this head.
Seeing a light, we went down, and found only an old rigger there, wrapped in a
Shipmates, it is a two-stranded lesson; a lesson to us all as sinful men,
So fare thee well, poor devil of a Sub-Sub, whose commentator I am.
So utterly lost was he to all sense of reverence for the many marvels of their
Some were storied weapons.  With this once long lance, now wildly elbowed,
Somehow, the sight of him struck me so, that I said nothing to Queequeg of
Son of darkness, he added, turning to Queequeg, art thou at present in
Spain, and the establishment of the eternal democracy in those parts.  That
Spain; as far by water, from Joppa, as Jonah could possibly have sailed in
Stand by to come close alongside, now!  Careful, careful! --come, Bildad, boy
Starbuck, a native of Nantucket, and a Quaker by descent.  He was a long,
Starbuck; it'll spoil.  Be careful with the butter --twenty cents the pound it
Still New Bedford is a queer place.  Had it not been for us whalemen, that
Still, for the most part, that sort of thing is to be had anywhere.  These
Strong intuitions of the man assure the mariners he can be no innocent.  In
Stubb," I thought I might as well fall to kicking the pyramid again.  But I
Supper 'll be ready directly.  I sat down on an old wooden settle, carved all
Supper over, the company went back to the bar-room, when, knowing not what
Surely all this is not without meaning.  And still deeper the meaning of that
System of Nature, A. D.
Talbot, Who, at the age of eighteen, was lost overboard, Near the Isle of
Tarshish.  There lurks, perhaps, a hitherto unheeded meaning here.  By all
Tartar air! --how I spurned that turnpike earth! --that common highway all over
Testament?  Do you think the archangel Gabriel thinks anything the less of me,
The Captain came aboard last night.  What Captain? --Ahab?  Who but him
The face of my Deliverer God.  My song for ever shall record That terrible,
The grandmother of Benjamin Franklin was Mary Morrel" afterwards, by marriage,
The landlord of the Spouter-Inn had recommended us to his cousin Hosea Hussey
The original iron entered
The pale Ushei{rthreadbare} in coat, heart, body, and brain; I see him now.
The seven hundred and seventy-seventh lay, Captain Peleg.  Thou Bildad!
The space between the decks was small; and there, bolt-upright, sat old
Then the wild and distant seas where he rolled his island bulk; the
There was a fishy flavor to the milk, too, which I could not at all account
There was excellent blood in his veins --royal stuff; though
There weekly arrive in this town scores of green Vermonters and New Hampshire
There's plenty room for two to kick about in that bed; it's an almighty big
Therefore you must not, in every case at least, take the higgledy-piggledy
They had just landed from their boat, and this was the first house they
Think of Death and the Judgment then?  No!  no time to think about Death then.
This Tablet Is erected to his Memory by His Widow.  Shaking off the sleet
This being told to Queequeg, he at once complied, and again politely motioned
This text of Melville's Moby-Dick is based on the Hendricks House edition.
Thou beliest thine own heart, Peleg.  Tell me, when this same Pequod here had
Thou belongest to that hopeless, sallow tribe which no wine of this world will 
Thought he, it's a wicked world in all meridians; I'll die a pagan.
Throwing aside the counterpane, there lay the tomahawk sleeping by the
United States.  Whaling Voyage by one Ishmael.  Bloody Battle in
Vineyard.  But what takes thee a-whaling?  I want to know that before I think
Vineyarder, a Cape man.  Now, it being Christmas when the ship shot from out
Washington's head, as seen in the popular busts of him.  It had the same long
Watch!  Coffin!  Angels!  save me!  Speak-e!  tell-ee me who-ee be, or dam-me,
Whale Fishery) to his visiting card, such a procedure would be deemed
Whaleman's Chapel, and few are the moody fishermen, shortly bound for the
What am I that I should essay to hook the nose of this leviathan!  The awful
When all preliminaries were over and Peleg had got everything ready for
Wherefore he had no fancy for lowering for whales after sun-down; nor for
Whitehall northward.  What do you see?--Posted like silent sentinels all
Without saying a word, Queequeg, in his wild sort of way, jumped upon the
Would that I could clear out Hampton Court and the Tuileries for ye!  But
Ye hav'n't seen him yet, have ye?  No, we hav'n't.  He's sick they say, but
Yes, Ishmael, the same fate may be thine.  But somehow I grew merry again.
Yet here they all unite.  Tell me, does the magnetic virtue of the needles of
Yojo had provided to carry Queequeg and me round the Cape.  But I had not
Yojo in our little bedroom --for it seemed that it was some sort of Lent or
You cannot hide the soul.  Through all his unearthly tattooings, I thought I
You must go to New Bedford to see a brilliant wedding; for, they say, they
You see him?  well, spose him one whale eye, well, den!  and taking sharp
Your Krusensterns; but I say that scores of anonymous Captains have sailed
Zealand heads (great curios, you know), and he's sold all on 'em but one,
Zoology is so much involved as that which is entitled Cetology, says Captain
a Dutchman, all other ships long shunned those shores as pestiferously
a Hebrew," he cries --and then --"I fear the Lord the God of Heaven who hath
a battery, would quickly recoil at the apparition of the sperm whale's vast
a bit of glass stuck against the wall, and I never saw such a sight in my
a bitter cold morning.  Seeing, now, that there were no curtains to the window,
a chap is he --does he always keep such late hours?  It was now hard upon
a choice resulting from my own unbiased freewill and discriminating judgment.
a common pitch pine leg he kicked with, was it?  No, you were kicked by a
a conscience to lug about that would be heavy enough to founder the largest
a dive.  Strange!  Nothing will content them but the extremest limit of the
a door mat, and parade the streets of any Christian town in that sort of
a hair of your head.  Stop your grinning, shouted I, and why didn't you
a hard command.  But all the things that God would have us do are hard for us
a harpooneer, then your objections indefinitely multiply.  Nor was there any
a hollow trunk, as if a hermit and a crucifix were within; and here sleeps
a large number of fifties being found together, that his astonishment at the
a little plan that had occurred to me just previous to the entrance of the
a man smoking in bed with me.  It's dangerous.  Besides, I aint insured.
a man who had never cringed and never had had a creditor.  Whether it was,
a masterless commotion that he scarce heeds the moment when he drops seething
a member?  he then said, turning to me; not very long, I rather guess,
a most direful manner.  My boy, said the landlord, you'll have the
a nice bed: Sal and me slept in that ere bed the night we were spliced.
a noble thing is that canticle in the fish's belly!  How billow-like and
a perpendicular side ladder, like those used in mounting
a plenty; and so in some small degree, with cetology, or the science of
a plum-pudding voyage, as they called it (that is, a short whaling-voyage in
a quoggy spot in him somewhere.  As a general rule, he can't amount to much in
a sailor who had visited that very island, and he told me that it was the
a sailor, because of the wholesome exercise and pure air of the forecastle
a schooner or brig, confined to the north of the line, in the Atlantic Ocean
a ship --as having plain precedence over a mere island King, especially in the
a ship from a boat at sea.  The wife of a whaling captain had provided the
a ship in which her beloved brother Bildad was concerned, and in which she
a stove boat will make me an immortal by brevet.  Yes, there is death in this
a sure delight; and higher the top of that delight, than the bottom of the
a tomahawk!  Queequeg! --in the name of goodness, Queequeg, wake!  At length,
a very early start.
a whalin', so you'd better get used to that sort of thing.
a wicked nineveh, jonah, appalled at the hostility he should raise, fled from
a word he spoke; nor did his officers say aught to him; though by all their
aboard of a whaleman in the South Seas, and so landed in this Christian
abounding dignity which has no robed investiture.  Thou shalt see it shining
about
about Captain Ahab, and how he was, and when he was going to come on board
about half an inch or so, into the plank.  His bone leg steadied in that hole;
about his losing his leg last voyage, according to the prophecy.  Didn't ye
about in the most unnatural manner.  At last extinguishing the fire, he took
about keeping a yellow warehouse on our starboard hand till we opened a white
about religion made much impression upon Queequeg.  Because, in the first
about that harpooneer. -- I shan't sleep with him.  I'll try the bench here.
about that, eh?  Nothing about the silver calabash he spat into?  And nothing
about the first thing babies do, and that's a sort of queer, too.  Damn me,
about the thing --though in truth he was entirely so, concerning the precise
about the value of a timber head, or a foot of plank, or a nail or two in the
about us!  But what is this lesson that the book of Jonah teaches?
about what whaling is; do ye yet feel inclined for it?  I do, sir.  Very
above a hundred yards, when chancing to turn a corner, and looking back as I
abreast.  There, said the landlord, placing the candle on a crazy old sea
absolute dictator of it, so soon as the ship sailed out upon the open sea.
absolute!  The centre and circumference of all democracy!  His omnipresence,
accommodated with a room, received for answer that his house was full --not a
accompanied by his boat-steerer or harpooneer, who in certain conjunctures
account kick back; for you can't help yourself, wise Stubb.  Don't you see
account of our Leviathan?  Who but mighty Job!  And who composed the first
account that man more honorable than that great captain of antiquity who
accounts Tarshish could have been no other city than the modern Cadiz.  That's
accustomed to boots, his pair of damp, wrinkled cowhide ones -- probably not
acquainted with, still I ascribed this --and rightly ascribed it --to the
acquiesce; and accordingly prepared to set about this business with a
act of paying is perhaps the most uncomfortable infliction that the two
active life.  Queequeg, said I, going up to him, Queequeg, what's the
activity aboard the pequod.  not only were the old sails being mended, but
adventure of their subsequent lives, strangely blend with these unoutgrown
advertised, they let him pass, and he descends into the cabin.  "Who's
afore breakfast?  He's cracked, Queequeg, said I, come on.  Holloa!
afternoon of the 21st June, the longest day in the year in our hemisphere.  I
afternoon.  Go from Corlears Hook to Coenties Slip, and from thence, by
again and go to sleep.  Queequeg, look here --you sabbee me, I sabbee you --this
again towards the tormented deep.  Terrors upon terrors run shouting through
again, and every eye on the preacher.  He paused a little; then kneeling in
against all warrantry to
against the spile upon the wharf to which the ship is moored, offering five
against this unknown harpooneer.  Thinks I, I'll wait awhile; he must be
ago, when he lay like dead for three days and nights; nothing about that
aim at it, he darted the iron right over old Bildad's broad brim, clean across
ain't Captain Bildad; no, and he ain't Captain Peleg; he's Ahab, boy; and
air over me from under the sill of the window, that this plan would never do
air, the beautiful and bountiful horse-chestnuts, candelabra-wise, proffer
air; then slightly
alarmed by his energy, perhaps also a little touched at the hearty grief in
alarmed.  I had allowed him such abundant time; I thought he might have had
ale.  He must have been born in some time of general drought and famine, or
alike --for we are all somehow dreadfully cracked about the head, and sadly
alive.  He seemed to do most of the talking and commanding, and not Bildad.
all God's sun-lit waves rolled by, And lift me deepening down to doom.  I saw
all about whaling, I dare say --eh?  Nothing, Sir; but I have no doubt I
all describe, was not exactly awe; I do not know what it was.  But I felt
all glittering in the clear, cold air.  Huge hills and mountains of casks on
all his barbaric virtues, and erect as a giraffe, moved about the decks in
all invited guests.  He was as particular about the comfortable arrangement of
all kinds of vague wonderments and half-apprehensions, and all connected with
all men, they possessed the least assurance in the parlor.  But perhaps the
all other hunted whales, his is an unwritten life.  Now the various species of
all outward worldly ties and connexions?  Yes, for replenished with the meat
all pass off.  And once for all, let me tell thee and assure thee, young man,
all right; not before.  What do you know about him?  What did they tell
all seated at the table, and I was preparing to hear some good stories about
all that region.  Should you ever be athirst in the great American desert,
all that's kind to our mortalities.  But in that gale, the port, the land, is
all the pomp of six feet five in his socks.  There was a corporeal humility
all the rest of the banded whalemen in the world; sail a navy of upwards of
all, down the throat of the tempest.  But think not that this famous town has
all.  Any how, it's all fixed and arranged a'ready; and some sailors or
allusion was made to it, especially by the mates.  But once Tashtego's
almost drive beneath it.  within are shabby shelves, ranged round with old
almost in one ticking of a watch, and every instant seemed on the point of
almost miraculous dexterity and strength, sent him high up bodily into the
almost, but a spare captain and duplicate ship.  At the period of our arrival
alone resides the highest truth, shoreless, indefinite as God --so, better is
alone, in Bible language, goes down to it in ships; to and fro ploughing it
already involved in the matter, he insensibly strives to cover up his
already small area of the chapel, the architect, it seemed, had acted upon the
altogether cool and self-collected; right in the middle of the room;
altogether unwarranted.  But what most puzzled and confounded you was a long,
ambition, all mortal greatness is but disease.  But, as yet we have not to
among the cleanliest things of this tidy earth.  But even granting the charge
among them all, shall at times lift himself to the exalted mounts; if I shall
among which it hung.  The lamp alarms and frightens Jonah; as lying in his
among whom he was a very great favorite.  He had been a sailor and a
an anchor in their waters.  The uncounted isles of all Polynesia confess the
an apoplectic fit.  I looked through the key-hole; but the door opening into
an ash-box in the porch.  Ha!  thought I, ha, as the flying particles almost
an enraged and mighty man.  But were the coming narrative to reveal, in any
an excellent one.  It may seem ridiculous, but it reminded me of General
an odd corner of the room, the key-hole prospect was but a crooked and
an offing, that the two pilots were needed no longer.  The stout sail-boat
an undigested apple-dumpling; and since then perpetuated through the
an unknown stranger, in a strange inn, in a strange town, and that stranger
and Hosea Hussey had his account books bound in superior old shark-skin.
and a lesson to me as a pilot of the living God.  As sinful men, it is a
and again marking the sleeper, jocularly hinted to Queequeg that perhaps we
and also his pipe.  lighting the pipe at the binnacle lamp and planting the
and any publications resulting from analysis of this data must
and ashes a little, he made a polite offer of it to the little negro.  But the
and at Bombay, in the Apollo Green, live Yankees have often scared the
and at intervals singing what seemed a dismal stave of psalmody, to cheer the
and bear it.  But even this wears off in time.  What of it, if some old hunks
and better, and was expected aboard every day; meantime, the two Captains,
and bland deceits.  Wild he was; a very sight of sights to see; yet I began
and board, for which I would not have to pay one stiver.  It might be thought
and bowing his head lowly, with an aspect of the deepest yet manliest
and calms of all four oceans, her old hull's complexion was darkened like a
and centre of all verdure.  Queequeg caught one of these young saplings
and cheerless.  I knew no one in the place.  With anxious grapnels I had
and cocoanuts; and with some parsley in their mouths, were sent round with
and desiring him to make a settee of himself under a spreading tree, perhaps
and dressed; and Queequeg, taking a prodigiously hearty breakfast of chowders
and earth --pagans and all included --can possibly be jealous of an
and earth; and"vomited out Jonah upon the dry land;" when the word of the
and easy parts in genteel comedies, and jolly parts in farces --though I
and european men-of-war now peacefully ride in once savage harbors, let them
and every mother's son and soul of us belong; the great and everlasting
and every plank thunders with trampling feet right over Jonah's head; in all
and eye levelled at the Pequod, the beggar-like stranger stood a moment, as if
and families....  Utter confusion exists among the historians of this animal
and finding no speedy vent runs roaring fore and aft, till the mariners come
and gardens more opulent, than in New Bedford.  Whence came they?  how planted
and grow convivial upon tears; and say to them bluntly, with full eyes and empty 
and he handles it about right.  I say, Quohog, or whatever your name is, did
and hints, doing my best to talk with him meanwhile.  At first he little
and icebergs all astern, the Pequod now went rolling through the bright Quito
and it's a plaguy rough board here --feeling of the knots and notches.  But
and jolly, again thought I, pausing one moment to watch the broad glare in
and least known parts of the earth.  She has explored seas and archipelagoes
and making refugees of long-pampered  Gabriel, Michael, and Raphael, against
and more awful lesson which Jonah teaches to me as a pilot of
and my stepmother who, somehow or other, was all the time whipping me, or
and no possible mistake.  Queequeg! --Queequeg! --all still.  Something must
and offered a prayer so deeply devout that he seemed kneeling and praying at
and pryed about the Devil-Dam; from her, hopped over to the Tit-bit; and,
and put a corn-cob into his mouth, and yet that would not keep out the
and requires a strong decoction of Seneca and the Stoics to enable you to grin
and responsible owners of the ship, and feeling half a mind to give up all
and resumed my seat.  In a few moments the savory steam came forth again, but
and rituals must be over, I went up to his room and knocked at the door; but
and run away with by a whale, years afterward slain off the Cape of Blanco.
and seek by other means to save the ship.  But all in vain; the indignant
and selecting one entitled The Latter Day Coming; or No Time to Lose, placed
and smoke, we went to our room together.  He made me a present of his
and snug, the more so since it was so chilly out of doors; indeed out of
and so on to the full glass --the Cape Horn measure, which you may gulp down
and somehow, Sam got pitched on the floor, and came near breaking his arm.
and steering her well out to sea.  Indeed, as that was not at all his proper
and still more to me, for I am a greater sinner than ye.  And now how gladly
and that one he's trying to sell to-night, cause to-morrow's Sunday, and it
and that the street being very narrow, the house opposite commanded a plain
and the Pequod was as good a ship as any --I thought the best -- and all this I
and the insertion into it, of the ivory heel.  Ah!  Stubb, thou did'st not
and the judgment then?  What?  With all three masts making such an everlasting
and the pequod.  devil- dam, i do not know the origin of; tit-bit is
and the voyage we had bound ourselves to sail; and a hundred other shadowy
and then concluded by roaring back into his wigwam.  During these days of
and then flinging the other like a lasso, caught it round the boom as it swept
and then jump after it?  Answer, quick!  I am, sir, if it should be
and then proceeded to wash himself.  At that time in the morning any
and then stopping to adjust the sheath on his harpoon barbs.  I asked him why
and there may be a caster of state.  How they use the salt, precisely --who
and there's naught to staunch it; so, after sore wrestlings in his berth,
and thus an old idolator at heart, he yet lived among these Christians, wore
and tomahawk, he quietly offered me a puff.  And then we sat exchanging puffs
and unhorse you with a split helmet every time.  The whale has no famous
and we felt like getting up again, though day-break was yet some way down the
and wine of the word, to the faithful man of God, this pulpit, I see, is a
and with that, Peleg hurried him over the side, and both dropt into the
and woe to that pilot of the living God who slights it.  Woe to him whom this
angels, and beat his tambourine in glory; called a coward here, hailed a
annuitants; widows, fatherless children, and chancery wards; each owning
another cursed Jonah (by which name indeed they called him), bustles a
another grin, and throwing them into the great stove in the middle of the
another time with a bunch of quills for the chief mate's desk, where he kept
another with a sou'-wester and a bombazine cloak.  No town-bred dandy will
answer is forced from Jonah by the hard hand of God that is upon him.  "I am
answered, generally he's an early bird -- airley to bed and airley to rise
answered.  Yes; all these brave houses and flowery gardens came from the
antiquities, were added new and marvellous features, pertaining to the wild
any human thing supposed to be complete, must for that very reason infallibly
any other whale hunter.  Starbuck was no crusader after perils; in him
apartment to myself.  Thinks I, Queequeg, under the circumstances, this is a
apoplexy! --and with these cries, she ran towards the kitchen, I following.
apparelled like any barbaric Ethiopian emperor, his neck heavy with pendants
appearance of the elderly man I saw; he was brown and brawny, like most old
are called serious things, and indeed deemed those selfsame serious things
are in the country; in some high land of lakes.  Take almost any path you
are not without their meanings.  But Faith, like a jackal, feeds among the
are pitiful.  For when Jonah, not yet supplicating God for mercy, since he
are, that is true.  But butchers, also, and butchers of the bloodiest badge
arid summers had he seen; those summers had dried up all his physical
arm of his tattooed all over with an interminable Cretan labyrinth of a
arm, and demanded his harpoon; she allowed no harpoon in her chambers.  Why
around him, seemed to be saying to himself -- It's a mutual, joint-stock
around the town, stand thousands upon thousands of mortal men fixed in ocean
around this town?  That's precisely it, said the landlord, and I told him
arrayed in a decent suit, he quietly approached the pulpit.  Like most old
as I was, and remembering what the landlord said about the harpooneer's not
as a rather good sort of god, who perhaps meant well enough upon the whole,
as affording a glancing bird's eye view of what has been promiscuously said,
as all my remonstrances produced no effect upon Queequeg, I was obliged to
as an anchor and dropped into the sea; when instantly an oily calmness floats
as carelessly as if he were a sportsman bagging a dead woodcock.  All these
as he was, he still hugged me tightly, as though naught but death should part
as his own special plantation.  There is his home; there lies his business,
as if it were the lower jaw of an exasperated whale.  In the midst of this
as is sometimes the case in these ports, being held by a crowd of old
as strange to him as though he were in the planet Jupiter; and yet he seemed
as the harpooneers were flingers of javelins.  And since in this famous
as the poets here appearing, these extracts are solely valuable or entertaining,
as though they were drawing nigh the odorous Moluccas instead of the
as you gazed, and wondered what monstrous cannibal and savage could ever have
ashes!  What despair in those immovable inscriptions!  What deadly voids and
ashore or afloat, is terribly infected with the nameless miseries of the
ashore.  To be sure they all sleep together in one apartment, but you have
asleep or awake, I have a way of always keeping my eyes shut, in order the
assaults!  And thus have these naked Nantucketers, these sea hermits, issuing
assented to.  Then the Captain knows that Jonah is a fugitive; but at the
assented; for besides the affection I now felt for Queequeg, he was an
at Queequeg so much --for they were used to seeing cannibals like him in their
at all, especially as another current from the rickety door met the one from
at hand upon all mortally practical occasions.  Besides, he thought, perhaps,
at his frantic impudence.  At last, stepping on board the Pequod, we found
at last, standing motionless, with closed eyes, for the moment, seemed
at last. --Down, dog, and kennel!  Starting at the unforeseen concluding
at once; and since the sea-gods had ordained that he should soon become my
at such times look downwards to our platters, they, on the contrary, copying
at the Island, the heaviest storage of the Pequod had been almost completed;
at the apparition of Captain Peleg in the act of withdrawing his leg from my
at the feet.  We kept the pipe passing over the sleeper, from one to the
at the men down the hatchways, roaring up to the riggers at the mast-head,
at the whales, in order to discover when they were nigh enough to risk a
at times affected, and in some cases seemed well nigh to overbalance all the
attempt.  Those books are Beale's and Bennett's; both in their time surgeons
august dignity I treat of, is not the dignity of kings and robes, but that
author, and whaling no famous chronicler, you will say.  The whale no
authority, in order to propose myself as a candidate for the voyage, at
awaiting him; and the whale shoots-to all his ivory teeth, like the Lord out
aware of that, said elijah, slowly and wonderingly looking from me to
away at his pipe and sitting up in bed.  You gettee in, he added, motioning
away at the space between his legs.  he was trying his hand at a ship under
away the Captain from that scent.  "I'll sail with ye," --he says, --"the
away unobserved, and I saw no more of him till he became my comrade on the
away with thee, friend Starbuck, and do our bidding.  How now!  Here upon the
away, I was full of thoughtfulness; what had been incidentally revealed to
back and strike him, or --what's that? -- down here on my knees and pray for
bad taste.  Halting for an instant at the foot of the ladder, and with both
bamboozingly story is this you are telling me?  getting into a towering rage.
bar-- a rude attempt at a right whale's head.  Be that how it may, there
barbarous; but the whale-ship touched there.  The whale-ship is the true
barnacled hulls of the leviathan; at the outset it is but well to attend to a
battering seas.  Now these three mates --Starbuck, Stubb, and Flask, were
battled with virgin wonders and terrors that Cooke with all his marines and
bay on his native coast.  And never having been anywhere in the world but in
be backward, but let him cheerfully allow himself to spend and be spent in
be comfortable any more.  But if, like Queequeg and me in the bed, the tip
be faulty.  I shall not pretend to a minute anatomical description of the
be found wanting in the Pequod, after once fairly getting to sea.  At one time
be his, who coming to lay him down, can say with his final breath --O Father!
be mine the lesson that Jonah teaches to all sinners; and therefore to ye,
be passed; and at last amid the whirl of woe he feels, a deep stupor steals
be seen actively engaged in looking over the bows for the approaching anchor,
be the proprietor of one of the best kept hotels in all Nantucket, and
be true, even though to be false were salvation!  Yea, woe to him who, as the
be, to keep quiet, and let me get up and light the lamp again.  But his
be.
beach, without a background.  There is more sand there than you would use in
bear a hardy helm; for lo!  the sun is breaking through; the clouds are
beards stiff with icicles, they seemed an eruption of bears from Labrador.
beating against a terrible storm off a lee coast of black rocks and snowy
beaver hat, a very tall one, by the by, and then --still minus his trowsers
became still less and less a recluse; as if, when the ship had sailed from
because I promptly and respectfully obey that old hunks in that particular
because that other person don't believe it also.  But when a man's religion
becomes really frantic; when it is a positive torment to him; and, in fine,
bed for confidential disclosures between friends.  Man and wife, they say,
bed that.  Why, afore we give it up, Sal used to put our Sam and little
bed unoccupied.  But avast, he added, tapping his forehead, you haint no
bed!  the small of my back ached to think of it.  And it was so light too;
bed-clothes too, seeing that there was no fire in the room.  The more so, I
bed.  But what is this on the chest?  I took it up, and held it close to the
bedfellow; he's been in a fight, got dreadfully cut, and here he is, just
bedfellows.  I told him yes; whereat I thought he looked pleased, perhaps a
bedwards.  Suppose now, he should tumble in upon me at midnight --how could I
beefsteaks, done rare.  Enough, that when breakfast was over he withdrew like
been a kind of moody --desperate moody, and savage sometimes; but that will
been so killed Starbuck well knew.  What doom was his own father's?  Where, in
before I did.
before hinted, I have no objection to any person's religion, be it what it
before hinted, for some time there was a continual fetching and carrying on
before long!  laughed the stranger, with a solemnly derisive sort of laugh.
before sailed out of Nantucket, had never ere this laid eye upon wild Ahab.
before us.  We resumed business; and while plying our spoons in the
before you, and at the same time, in the remotest degree succeed in the
before.  Poor Alabama boy!  On the grim Pequod's forecastle, ye shall ere
began to think that after all I might be cherishing unwarrantable prejudices
begged him as well as I could, to accelerate his toilet somewhat, and
begged him to go on and tell it.  He gladly complied.  Though at the time I
begged his pardon.  From that hour I clove to Queequeg like a barnacle; yea,
begone, or I'll clear the world of thee!  As he said this, Ahab advanced upon
being an incorrigible old hunks, and in his sea-going days, a bitter, hard
being cunningly presented to me under various disguises, induced me to set
being done; those on deck rushed towards the bows, and stood eyeing the boom
being itself nicely headed, and stained with a mahogany color, the whole
being said, the High Priest opens the banquet by the immemorial ceremony of
being.  In fact take my body who will, take it I say, it is not me.  And
bench in the room was about four inches higher than the planed one --so there
benches, and a still slighter shuffling of women's shoes, and all was quiet
bending over them, as if our knee-pans were warming-pans.  We felt very nice
benevolent countenance
bent upon narrowly observing so curious a creature.  When, at last, his mind
berth his tormented eyes roll round the place, and this thus far successful
beseeching her as a particular favor to give me a good slippering for my
beside him.  As for the residue of the Pequod's company, be it said, that at
besides the Feegeeans, Tongatabooarrs, Erromanggoans, Pannangians, and
bespeaking his sea-outfit, he orders bell-buttons to his waistcoats; straps
bestirred themselves; the mates were actively engaged; and several of the
better than nothing; and if we had a lucky voyage, might pretty nearly pay
better than try pot-luck at the Try Pots.  But the directions he had given us
between a living thump and a dead thump.  That's what makes a blow from the
between billows; so at nightfall, the Nantucketer, out of sight of land,
between the andirons.  the chimney jambs and all the bricks inside were very
beyond seas for a spile to stop a leak in an oil cask; that pieces of wood in
beyond the swelling flood, Stand dressed in living green.  So to the Jews old
bigger than hazel nuts, mixed with pounded ship biscuit, and salted pork cut
bill; using, however, my comrade's money.  The grinning landlord, as well as
billow leaping over the bulwarks.  Wave after wave thus leaps into the ship,
birth-mark on him from crown to sole.  So powerfully did the whole grim aspect
biscuit on top and applying the flame from the lamp, he kindled the shavings
bit of mirror against the wall, begins a vigorous scraping, or rather
black and bold, there seemed tokens of a spirit that would dare a thousand
black, and suspended by asses' ears, swung from the cross-trees of an old
black-letter, thou reasonest well.  Yes, these eyes are windows, and this
blackish looking squares.  Yes, it's just as I thought, he's a terrible
blackness of darkness, and the weeping and wailing and teeth-gnashing
blackness, not houses, on either hand, and here and there a candle, like a
blanket.  I thought so.  All right; take a seat.  Supper? --you want supper?
bless ye, and have ye in His holy keeping, men, murmured old Bildad, almost
bliss; why all the living so strive to hush all the dead; wherefore but the
board of divers odds and ends of things, both large and small.  Chief among
board the Pequod, particularly in getting under weigh; and Charity, his
boasted of taking as many walled towns.  And, as for me, if, by any
boat.  Ship and boat diverged; the cold, damp night breeze blew between; a
boats and captured cod; and at last, launching a navy of great ships on the
boats' crews of the Ship Eliza, Who were towed out of sight by a Whale, On
boatswain calls all hands to lighten her; when boxes, bales, and jars are
bodily blight.  It was merely the condensation of the man.  He was by no
body of mine is the house.  What a pity they didn't stop up the chinks and the
boisterous something about everything connected with that famous old island,
boisterously grand!  We feel the floods surging over us; we sound with him to
boldness to his face, only looks so much the more a coward.  He will not
bone of the sperm whale's jaw.  Aye, he was dismasted off Japan, said the
boom to stay it, seemed madness.  It flew from right to left, and back again,
boom was now flying from side to side, completely sweeping the entire after
both ran, in starting on the voyage with such a devil for a pilot.  I was
bottom of the sea after them; to have one's hands among the unspeakable
bound to hell.  Flukes and flames!  Bildad, say that again to me, and start
bowl, thinks I to myself, I wonder now if this here has any effect on the
bowl; --taking it i suppose for a huge finger-glass.  now, said Queequeg,
brawny company, with bosky beards; an unshorn, shaggy set, all wearing
break thy backbone!  why don't ye spring, i say, all of ye--spring!  Quohog!
breakers.  But high above the
breakfast.  They say that men who have seen the world, thereby become quite at
breath, that's a purty long sarmon for a chap that rips a little now and
breeching up towards the warm and pleasant sun, and all the delights of air
breezes, which a few hours previous were out of sight of land.  Look at the
brief, that if the captain have a family, or any absorbing concernment of
bright terraces of flowers upon the barren refuse rocks thrown aside at
brighter relief, and looked more expansive than it otherwise would, this I
broad awake, feeling a great deal worse than I have ever done since, even
broad ends on the deck, a circle of these slabs laced together, mutually
broad shad-bellied waistcoat; from that becoming boat-header, chief-mate, and
broad-shouldered make.  But one thing, nevertheless, that made me a little
brother-in-law, and a spare bible for the steward -- after all this, the two
brow, and the light leaping from his eye, made all his simple hearers look
brown and burnt, making his white teeth dazzling by the contrast; while in
brows as a slave before the Sultan.  Sideways leaning, we sideways darted;
bulwarks, from thence into the bows of one of the whale-boats hanging to the
bumpkin was restored.  All hands voted Queequeg a noble trump; the captain
bumpkin, running towards that officer; Capting, Capting, here's the devil.
bumpkins there, who, by their intense greenness, must have come from the heart
burglar hastening to cross the seas.  So disordered, self-condemning is his
burn, as before so many shrines, to our glory!  But look at this matter in
burying himself.  Oh!  never thee mind about that, Bildad, said Peleg.  Has
business as selling the heads of dead idolators?  Depend upon it, landlord,
business of whaling --a speechlessly quick chaotic bundling of a man into
business of whaling.  One way and another, it has begotten events so
business that for more than half a century she had followed.  Old Captain
business, but the pilot's; and as he was not yet completely recovered --so
but I rolled about a good deal, and could not sleep for a long time.  At
but all things are queer, come to think of 'em.  But that's against my
but as for me, I am tormented with an everlasting itch for things remote.  I
but he now spoke of his native island; and, eager to hear his history, I
but hollow courtesy.  I drew my bench near him, and made some friendly signs
but ill comprehended not a few of his words, yet subsequent disclosures,
but in all cases did not succeed in his benevolent designs.  Now, this plan of
but jumped out of my pantaloons and boots, and then blowing out the light
but no sooner does he hear that hollow voice, than he darts a scrutinizing
but once more he came softly after us; and touching my shoulder again, said,
but the lock contains no key.  Hearing him foolishly fumbling there, the
but too well knew the darkness of his deserts, --when wretched Jonah cries out
but two dismal tallow candles, each in a winding sheet.  We were fain to
but what the stingy old Bildad might have a mighty deal to say about shipping
but with some cautiousness dropt it to its place, for fear of disturbing
but with whom one sometimes loves to sit, and feel poor-devilish, too;
button up our monkey jackets, and hold to our lips cups of scalding tea with
by a pool in the stream.  There is magic in it.  Let the most absent-minded
by any means the largest of the whales.  Yet, owing to the long priority of
by dint of much wriggling, and loud and incessant expostulations upon the
by so much the more shall ye for ever go thankless!
by that, Captain Peleg?  said I, now jumping on the bulwarks, and leaving my
by the plunging bowsprit, that for some time we did not notice the jeering
by wharves as Indian isles by coral reefs--commerce surrounds it with her surf.
by what a grey Manxman insinuated, an old sepulchral man, who, having never
cabin to speak another farewell word there; again came on deck, and looked
cabin, and thrusting his hands far down into his pockets, -- hear him, all of
cabin.  But then, the idea was,
cabin.  seated on the transom was what seemed to me a most uncommon and
calculated to allay these colorless misgivings, and induce confidence and
came into the room light in hand, and leaping from the bed I ran up to him.
came such fervent rays, that it seemed to have melted the packed snow and ice
came to a smoky light proceeding from a low, wide building, the door of which
can better answer than any one else.  And, doubtless, my going on this whaling
can only give me half a one; that the other half belongs to a certain
candle a good way off from me on the floor in one corner, and then began
candle moving about in a tomb.  At this hour of the night, of the last day of
cane.  Yes," thinks I,"it was only a playful cudgelling --in fact, only a
canes in land tornadoes.  So full of this reeling scene were we, as we stood
cannibals stand chatting at street corners; savages outright; many of whom
cannot tell why this was exactly; yet, now that I recall all the
canoes, after a perilous passage they discovered the island, and there they
captain had not looked up to jonah, though the man now stands before him;
captain makes himself visible by arriving to take command; for sometimes these
captain, and finally a ship-owner; Bildad, as I hinted before, had concluded
captains, Peleg and Bildad, issued from the cabin, and turning to the chief
carpenters and coopers, with blended noises of fires and forges to melt the
carpet-bag, tucked it under my arm, and started for Cape Horn and the
carriage, for his tarpaulin hat ran down with melting sleet, and his great
carved buckler or bedstead.  She was
case with swinging ones, were of cloth-covered rope, only the rounds were of
casks were piled upon her wharves, and side by side the world-wandering whale
castaways, I shall hereafter ascribe high qualities, though dark; weave round
castors, and scolding her little black boy meantime.  Wood-house!  cried I,
causes the muscles about the eyes to become pursed together.  Such
cave in; hence the spirit caves in; and all thoughts born of a fast must
celebrate as they will the heroes of Exploring Expeditions, your Cookes,
centre of the picture over three blue, dim, perpendicular lines floating in a
centre table, could see no other furniture belonging to the place, but a
certain mild gleams of a newly developing bloom --the spring verdure peeping
certainly have brought his Ramadan to a termination.  But no; there he was
cetology.  Far from it.  As touching the ancient authors generally, as well 
chambers of my soul are all in crookedness!"  Like one who after a night of
chance of spending a sufferable night unless in some other person's bed, I
chance; and in that vessel I must immediately ship myself, for the present
chapel with a handsome pair of red worsted man-ropes for this ladder, which,
chaplain had not yet arrived; and there these silent islands of men and women
chaplain.  Yes, it was the famous Father Mapple, so called by the whalemen,
chapters to, these men accounted unworthy of being set down in the ship's
character seem gone; bleeds with keenest anguish at the undraped spectacle
charity did this charitable Aunt Charity bustle about hither and thither,
cheapest, if not the cheeriest inns.  Such dreary streets!  Blocks of
cheek bones, and black rounding eyes --for an Indian, Oriental in their
cheek like
cheerfully we consign ourselves to perdition!  Finally, I always go to sea as
cheerfulness in every presentment of the voyage.  Three better, more likely
cherish such emotions.  For though the harpooneers, with the great body of
chest and arms.  As I live, these covered parts of him were checkered with
chest heaved as with a ground-swell; his tossed arms seemed the warring
chest that did double duty as a wash-stand and centre table; there, make
chest, and drawing forth the ship's articles, placed pen and ink before him,
chief among these motives was the overwhelming idea of the great whale
chief mate, had selected for his squire.  But Queequeg is already known.  Next
chief mate, that; good man, and a pious; but all alive now, I must turn
chief mates, and second mates, and third mates, and sea carpenters, and sea
child: hold ye then there can be any utter, hopeless harm in Ahab?  No, no,
chimney and packed me off to bed, though it was only two o'clock in the
chimney hag.  seeing he wasn't going to stop saying over his "wise Stubb, wise
choked me, are these ashes from that destroyed city, Gomorrah?  But The
chowder for dinner, and chowder for supper, till you began to look for
christians should be charitable in these things, and not fancy ourselves so
church to the larboard, and then keeping that on the larboard hand till we
circumstances, I think I can see a little into the springs and motives which
clammy reception in the winter time, ain't it, Mrs Hussey?  But being in a
classification of the constituents of a chaos, nothing less is here essayed.
clattering overboard; when the wind is shrieking, and the men are yelling,
claw-footed look about her.  Long seasoned and weather-stained in the typhoons
clean over the craft, is in the enormous act of impaling himself upon the
clear space against the wall, leaving a little interval between, for my back
clearing away the stern boat, Queequeg, stripped to the waist, darted from
close vicinity of the flying harpoon, had retreated towards the cabin gangway.
close.  Captain Peleg seldom or never went ashore, but sat in his wigwam
closed eyes,
closely seated by my bedside.  For what seemed ages piled on ages, I lay
clothes all rumpled and tumbled, and the sheets down at the foot, and the
clouds of tobacco smoke.  The next moment the light was extinguished, and
clout --what do you think, I saw? --why thunder alive, man, his stern was stuck
coal-black
coast of Labrador.  As it is, parts of her back country are enough to frighten
coast, were the most conspicuous object in the cymballed procession.  Grant
coffer-dam.  I have seldom seen such brawn in a man.  His face was deeply
cold, for there is no quality in this world that is not what it is merely by
combat of the four primal elements. --It's a blasted heath. --It's a Hyperborean
come to anchor somewhere --come along then; do come; won't ye come?  I
come to beg truce of a fortress.  Curious to tell, this imperial negro,
come to me that this ivory leg had at sea been fashioned from the polished
come to the conclusion that such an idea, however wild, might not be
comely looking cannibal.  What's all this fuss I have been making about,
comfort, and consolation to all on board
comfortableness of sharing a pipe and a blanket with a real friend.  With our
comforted for those who we nevertheless maintain are dwelling in unspeakable
comforting myself, however, with the thought that in pious Bildad might be
coming home at all that night, it being so very late, I made no more ado,
commodores of this earth, ever stands forth his own inexorable self.  Delight
common log.  Ah, the world!  Oh, the world!  Until the whale fishery rounded
communing with God and himself.  But again he leaned over towards the people,
communion with any christian church?  Why, said I, he's a member of the
companionship; always equal to himself.  Surely this was a touch of fine
comparable to the unspeakable carrion of those battle-fields from which so
compare with a country-bred one -- I mean a downright bumpkin dandy --a fellow
compassion, as though he thought it a great pity that such a sensible young
complaints -- No more the whale did me confine.  With speed he flew to my
completely independent of the squares of tattooing.  To be sure, it might be
completely stifle her upbraidings against the permitting stars.  But this
complexion of a third still lingers a tropic tawn, but slightly bleached
comprehensible terrors of man compared with the interlinked terrors and
comprising her beef, bread, water, fuel, and iron hoops and staves.  But, as
comrade standing on the wharf.  I mean, he replied, he must show his
concealed in this queer tenement, I at length found one who by his aspect
concerned in, for he never piloted any other craft --Bildad, I say, might now
concerned), I will here venture upon a little description of him.  He stood
concerning him.  And somehow, at the time, I felt a sympathy and a sorrow for
confabulations, what little nappishness remained in us altogether departed,
confess himself suspected; but that itself is strong suspicion.  So he makes
confession; whereupon the mariners became more and more appalled, but still
conflict with seas, or winds, or whales, or any of the ordinary irrational
confounded about the stranger, i confess i was now as much afraid of him as if
congregation, I knew not; but so many are the unrecorded accidents in the
connected with it, then am I ready to shiver fifty lances with you there,
conscious of so living or so striving.  So soon as I hear that such or such a
consciousness of knowing something about me seemed slowly dawning over him.
consider the duty thou owest to the other owners of this ship-- widows and
considered from his own point of view; and, in the second place, he did not
considered the matter a moment, and then up stairs we went, and I was
considering that we so earnestly believe money to be the root of all earthly
consistency about worthy Captain Bildad.  Though refusing, from conscientious
conspire to cast her on the treacherous, slavish shore?  But as in landlessness
consternation, Queequeg dropped deftly to his knees, and crawling under the
constrained; especially, as in all probability he had been sitting so for
content to toil in the shipyards of foreign cities, Queequeg disdained no
content.  Again, I always go to sea as a sailor, because they make a point of
content; and there let him rest.  All our arguing with him would not avail;
contented himself with restricting his ablutions to his chest, arms, and
continent of men, but each Isolato living on a separate continent of his
continual tolling of a bell in a ship that is foundering at sea in a fog --in
contrast.  Nothing exists in itself.  If you flatter yourself that you are all
contrivance, considering what manner of chapel it was, seemed by no means in
convenient on an excursion; much better than those garden-chairs which are
convertible into walking-sticks; upon occasion, a chief calling his attendant,
convicts' cells being never allowed to be locked within.  All dressed and
coopers, and sea blacksmiths, and harpooneers, and ship keepers; a brown and
cordially justified his bringing his harpoon into breakfast with him, and
coronation, even as a head of salad.  Can it be, though, that they anoint it
corrupt, but lay--" Lay, indeed, thought I, and such a lay!  the seven
corrupt.  It was an exceedingly long lay that, indeed; and though from the
cosmopolite philosopher cannot, for his life, point out one single peaceful
cottage, this Captain marches in, and being assigned the post of honor,
could attend to no business that day, at least none but a supper and a bed.
could be mended with a chair.  But it was a foot too narrow, and the other
could certainly say.  By some tacit consent, throughout the voyage little or no
could make eider down of a pine plank.  So gathering up the shavings with
could not suspect him of courting notoriety by any mere tricks of the stage.
could prevail.  But Queequeg vowed a vow.  Alone in his canoe, he paddled off
could, nevertheless, still flourish, must indeed have been extreme.  But it
countenance.  What's the matter with you, young man?  Get the axe!  For
country schoolmaster, making the tallest boys stand in awe of you.  The
country way; won't hurt him face.  Face!  said I, call that his face?  very
country's phrase, that we were bosom friends; he would gladly die for me, if
country.  I quaked to think of it.  A peddler of heads too --perhaps the heads
courage up.  And brave as he might be, it was that sort of bravery chiefly,
courage was not a sentiment; but a thing simply useful to him, and always
covered his face with his hands, and so remained kneeling, till all the
coverlid almost tied into knots, and the pillow a sort of frightful hot, as
craft in your day, for aught I know; --squared-toed luggers; mountainous
crannies though, and thrust in a little lint here and there.  But it's too
crawl to land!  Terrors of the terrible!  is all this agony so vain?  Take
crawl up the chimney, as i had seen a little sweep do a few days previous;
crazy to go to sea?  Why upon your first voyage as a passenger, did you
creation's final day.  And the women of New Bedford, they bloom like their own
creature, that over any ignominious blemish in him all his fellows should run
crew sprang for the handspikes.  Now, in getting under weigh, the station
crew.  We are part owners and agents.  But as I was going to say, if thou
crews from the hardy peasants of those rocky shores.  In like manner, the
cried Bildad, is this Philistine a regular member of Deacon Deuteronomy's
cried Peleg, Thou dost not want to swindle this young man!  he must have
cried Peleg.  Pious harpooneers never make good voyagers --it takes the shark
cried stationary Elijah, hailing us when we had removed a few paces.  Never
crippled way.  Some considerating touch of humanity was in him; for at times
crisis of the chase, toiling away, calm and collected as a journeyman joiner
crouching manner for some time, when all at once I thought I would open my
crowds of water-gazers there.  Circumambulate the city of a dreamy Sabbath
cry, Jonah staggers to his feet, and stumbling to the deck, grasps a shroud,
curious, certainly more comical.
cursed pyramid -- so confoundedly contradictory was it all, all the while, I
custom of fattening some of the lower orders for ottomans; and to furnish a
custom, when a great battle had been gained there, to barbecue all the slain
cutlery with a vengeance.  Afterwards I wondered the less at this operation
dad whale dead.  Quick, Bildad, said Peleg, his partner, who, aghast at the
damaged in the head.  But if you are speaking of Captain Ahab, of that ship
dangerous voyage, could so unrestingly push off again for still another
dangerous weepons in their rooms at night.  So, Mr. Queequeg (for she had
dark complexioned harpooneer.  At any rate, I made up my mind that if it
dark.  Landlord, for God's sake, Peter Coffin!  shouted I.  Landlord!
darkened, doleful day read the fate of the whalemen who had gone before me,
darkness.  Instantly I felt a shock running through all my frame; nothing was
dauntlessness, and his wild desire to visit Christendom, the captain at last
day, with a long oil-ladle in one hand, and a still longer whaling lance in
day; how it was I never could find out, for, though I applied myself to it
days, will satisfy you that the Greenland whale, without one rival, was to
dead lie buried beneath the green grass; who standing among flowers can say
deadly skrimmage with the Spaniard afore the altar in Santa? -- heard nothing
death into an easy chair.  What he thought of death itself, there is no
decanters, bottles, flasks; and in those jaws of swift destruction, like
decided that this was the very ship for us.  You may have seen many a quaint
decidedly objectionable, why rather than wander further about a strange town
deck sentinelled the slumbers of the band below; and when if a rope was to be
deck, and pretty close to the mizen shrouds, there was an auger hole, bored
deck.  As the sky grew less gloomy; indeed, began to grow a little genial, he
deck.  For as in this world, head winds are far more prevalent than winds
decks were worn and wrinkled, like the pilgrim-worshipped flag-stone in
declared everlasting war with the mightiest animated mass that has survived
deemed almost superfluous to establish the fact, that among people at large,
deep.  Is not the main-truck higher than the kelson is low?  Delight is to
deep; but soon we shall be lost in its unshored, harborless immensities.  Ere
defaced, that in the unequal cross-lights by which you viewed it, it was
degree, some time or other, cherish very nearly the same feelings towards the
deliriums and death.  Abominable are the tumblers into which he pours his
deliverance of him from the sea and the whale.  Shipmates, I do not place
dented with the marks of slavish heels and hoofs; and turned me to admire the
describing Jonah's sea-storm, seemed tossed by a storm himself.  His deep
descried, and the bow must bear the earliest brunt.  From thence it is the
description of his person.  He reads, and looks from Jonah to the bill;
deserted wharf the uncheered ship for Tarshish, all careening, glides to sea.
desire to see something more of Christendom than a specimen whaler or two.
desires for a supper and a bed, Mrs. Hussey, postponing further scolding for
determined rushing sort of energy and vigor, that should quickly settle that
determined to go to bed and to sleep; and no doubt, before a great while, he
devil fetch that harpooneer, thought I, but stop, couldn't I steal a march on
devil of a Sub-Sub appears to have gone through the long Vaticans and 
devils.  And besides all this, there was a certain lofty bearing about the
dexterity, hand over hand, mounted the steps as if ascending the main-top of
did he put forth the faint blossom of a look, which, in any other man, would
did so, who should be seen but Elijah following us, though at a distance.
did," says I --"right here it was." "Very good," says he --"he used his ivory
did; how could ye?  Who knows it?  Not all Nantucket, I guess.  But
died sixty round centuries ago; how it is that we still refuse to be
difficulty having opened his bag, he commenced fumbling in it, and presently
directions from Mrs. Hussey concerning the nearest way to bed; but, as
discernment detects crime in any, but whose cupidity exposes it only in the
dismally calculating that sixteen entire hours must elapse before I could hope
dismantled masts alone visible; and an exasperated whale, purposing to spring
dismissed it.  For who could tell but what the next morning, so soon as I
disobeying ourselves, wherein the hardness of obeying God consists.  With
distrustful about receiving a generous share of the profits was this: Ashore,
divided into wrought nails and cut nails; so mankind may be similarly divided.
do well in all climates.  Looking into his eyes, you seemed to see there the
do with such an one, but with quite another; and still a man, who, if indeed
do, said Bildad, eyeing me, and then went on spelling away at his book in a
do; for I knew the inferences without his further hinting them.  I had seen
does Jonah's deep sealine sound!  what a pregnant lesson to us is this
does it not bear a faint resemblance to a gigantic fish?  even the great
does she sail?  Aye, aye, ye are going in her, be ye?  She sails to-day.
dog, sir.  Then be called ten times a donkey, and a mule, and an ass, and
don't be too particular.  With halting steps I paced the streets, and passed
don't believe it's very punctual then.  I went down to supper.  After sitting a
don't take to be the fact.  Good again.  Now then, thou not only wantest to
don't think thou wilt be able to at present.  I don't know exactly what's the
don't--he eats nothing but steaks, and likes 'em rare.  The devil he does,
done a good morning's work, and that the Pequod was the identical ship that
doom, and with swift slantings tore him along"into the midst of the seas,"
door --the axe! --the axe!  he's had a stroke; depend upon it! --and so saying I
door flew back upon admitting him, a quick regardful eyeing of him by all
doubloons; and so I thought at the time.  Why, blast your eyes, Bildad,
doubt, like a good sailor, he took it to be a sort of call of the watch to
down among the sailors, and made a whaleman of him.  But like Czar Peter
down in the stern, paddle low in hand; and when the ship was gliding by,
down lengthwise along the line of the equator; yea, ye
down our traps, resolving, however, to sleep ashore till the last.  But it
downwards and inclosed in his folded arms.  The profoundest slumber slept
drab-colored eye intently looking at you, made you feel completely nervous,
dragged up hither from the bottom of the sea.  Can Herr Alexander perform a
dreadful punishment is just.  He leaves all his deliverance to God, contenting
dreadful storm comes on, the ship is like to break.  But now when the
dreadnaught, which he had previously hung on a chair, he fumbled in the
dreams --I opened my eyes, and the before sun-lit room was now wrapped in outer
dreams would have been of the crunching teeth of sharks.  But once, the mood
dreary street shouldering my bag, and comparing the gloom towards the north
dress first and then leave me to dress afterwards, leaving the whole
drinks the tepid tears of orphans.  But no more of this blubbering now, we are
dropping in before long.  I'll have a good look at him then, and perhaps we
drunken revelry hies to his bed, still reeling, but with conscience yet
dusty as he is, Jonah throws himself into his berth, and finds the little
duty by thee; I am part owner of this ship, and feel concerned for the souls
each other as though they had never been out of sight of some sheepfold among
each other at the watches, and for aught that could be seen to the contrary,
each other's fashion, upon this ragged old sailor; and agreed that he was
earnest man, and though born on an icy coast, seemed well adapted to endure
earnest thinking is but the intrepid effort of the soul to keep the open
earnestly enjoined that the selection of the ship should rest wholly with me,
earnestness of his manner.  Captain Ahab.  What!  the captain of our ship,
earthly reason why I as a sailor should sleep two in a bed, more than anybody
ease in manner, quite self-possessed in company.  Not always, though:
easy!  He was going on with some wild reminiscences about his tomahawk-pipe,
eaten that very evening.  No more, Queequeg, said I, shuddering; that will
effects upon the skin.  Now, while all these ideas were passing through me
either.  Mr Starbuck, mind that cooper don't waste the spare staves.  Oh!  the
elemental strife at sea.  Yet, this wild hint seemed inferentially negatived,
elements at work; and the thunders that rolled away from off his swarthy
elephant, vast curving icicles depended from the bows.  Lank Bildad, as pilot,
else singing some pagan psalmody or other, during which his face twitched
else to do with myself, I resolved to spend the rest of the evening as a
else; for sailors no more sleep two in a bed at sea, than bachelor Kings do
embalmed head; took out his enormous tobacco wallet, and groping under the
emblematical harpoons round yonder lofty mansion, and your question will be
employed in the American whale fishery, are Americans born, though pretty
emulation of the naval officers he should append the initials S. W.  F. (Sperm
ended with his pipe's last dying puff, Queequeg embraced me, pressed his
endlessness, yea, the intolerableness of all earthly effort.  Gaining the
engaged for the year.  Good-humored, easy, and careless, he presided over his
engaged therein, we are surrounded by all manner of defilements.  Butchers we
engineering forces employed in the construction of the American Canals and
enlightened world by the whaleman.  After its first blunder-born discovery by
enough civilized to show off his outlandishness in the strangest possible
enough.  So saying he procured the plane; and with his old silk handkerchief
enough; and then, without more ado, sat quietly down there.  Gracious!
enough; especially as in the merchant service many captains never show
enough; thou art shipped.  Yes, but I should like to see him.  But I
entered.  No wonder, then, that they made a straight wake for the whale's
entertaining the most absurd notions about Yojo and his Ramadan; --but what of
enthusiasm, -- but oh!  shipmates!  on the starboard hand of every woe, there is
entirely at his ease; preserving the utmost serenity; content with his own
equipped.  Every one knows what a multitude of things --beds, sauce-pans,
ere he judge him openly.  He charges him thrice the usual sum; and it's
ere he touched a deck.  How plainly he's a fugitive!  no baggage, not a
ere long the old man would emerge, griping at the iron banister, to help his
eschewed coffee and hot rolls, and applied his undivided attention to
especially as Peleg, his friend and old shipmate, seemed such a blusterer.
estimation of the encountered peril, but that an utterly fearless man is a
eternal August of the Tropic.  The warmly cool, clear, ringing, perfumed,
evening shades and phantoms gathering round the casements, and peering in
eventuated the liberation of Peru, Chili, and Bolivia from the yoke of Old
ever deserve any real repute in that small but high hushed world which I might
ever this earth's foremost part; all the rest comes in its rear; the pulpit
ever warm; and for whom even Pale Sherry would be too rosy-strong;
every fresh arrival, down went his mark opposite that article upon the paper.
every ropeyarn tingling like a wire; the two tall masts buckling like Indian
everything in profound quiet, not a soul moving.  The cabin entrance was
everyway, that instead of our going together among the whaling-fleet in
exactly how to take them.  At first they are overawing; their calm
exasperated monster.  Long usage had, for this Stubb, converted the jaws of
exceedingly sharp the long straight edges are always kept.
except in port; and on board the Pequod, for thirty years, the order to
exclamation of the so suddenly scornful old man, Stubb was speechless a
exhibiting strong symptoms of concluding his business operations, and jumping
experienced harpooneer, and as such, could not fail to be of great usefulness
experiences and remembrances as he had; it was not in nature that these
expressing the idea very plainly, so that he could take it in.  He said no;
extensive performances.  I take it that this part of the bill must have run
eye that almost startled me.  Look ye, lad; never say that on board the
eye-wrinkles are very effectual in a scowl.  Is this the Captain of the
eyes, and began creaking and limping about the room, as if, not being much
eyes, and begin to be over conscious of my lungs, I do not mean to have it
eyes; for when between sheets, whether by day or by night, and whether
face into an unearthly expression of disdain, ah!  him bevy small-e fish-e;
face of Falsehood!  That was it!  This, shipmates, this is that other lesson;
face that little negro idol of his; peering hard into its face, and with a
face.  I was watching to see where he kept his razor, when lo and behold, he
face; in all the nameless regal overbearing dignity of some mighty woe.  Ere
facts, an advocate who should wholly suppress a not unreasonable
falling among the cannibals, had been tattooed by them.  I concluded that this
far more dangerous comrade than a coward.
far-away domestic memories of his young Cape wife and child, tend to bend him
far-off unseen Eastern Continents; looked towards the land, looked aloft;
farthing is a good deal less than seven hundred and seventy-seven gold
fashion, to swim off into the air.  I snored; rolled over; and there I was
fashioned pulpits, it was a very lofty one, and since a regular stairs to
father the king, on the gaining of a great battle wherein fifty of the enemy
fear the Lord God then!  Straightway, he now goes on to make a full
fear, I beseech thee, remain not for aye a Belial bondsman.  Spurn the idol
fearfulness upon the man, who in mid-winter just landed from a four years'
feat like that?  In New Bedford, fathers, they say, give whales for dowers to
feature of the place, borrowed from the chaplain's former sea-farings.
feel his own identity aright except his eyes be closed; as if darkness were
feeling as if it were in a horse-collar; and suddenly felt a slight scratch.
feet a-going, and he will infallibly lead you to water, if water there be in
feet, sought out my stepmother, and suddenly threw myself at her feet,
fellow beings should be so companionable; as though a white man were anything
fellow man what I would have my fellow man to do to me -- that is the will of
fellow who anoints his hair, and palpably smells of that anointing.  In truth,
fellows, and lay them round in the piers and alcoves.  Besides, it was very
felt dreadfully.  But there was no help for it, so up stairs I went to my
felt like pushing him over, so as to change his position, for it was almost
ferocity in that particular whale, though indeed I might have inferred as
few moments I hardly noted that not a little of this overbearing grimness was
fiddle-headed beak.  What could be more full of meaning? --for the pulpit is
fierce uniqueness of the very nature of that wild Scandinavian vocation in
fifty years ago did Nathan Swain kill fifteen whales between a sunrise and a
fights 'gainst the very winds that fain would blow her homeward; seeks all
figure, no two parts of which were of one precise shade --owing I suppose to
filled with dusty rarities gathered from this wide world's remotest nooks.
final dismissal of the ship's riggers, and after the Pequod had been hauled
finally the deliverance and joy of Jonah.  As with all sinners among men,
finally, going on board the Pequod, looked around her for a moment, and then
finally, he no doubt thought he knew a good deal more about the true religion
fire salutes to the honor and glory of the whale-ship, which originally showed
fire, and still hastier
firmest fortitude, a determinate unsurrenderable
first Congregational Church.  Here be it said, that many tattooed savages
first I knew not what to make of this; but soon an inkling of the truth
first I saw nobody; but I could not well overlook a strange sort of tent, or
first dusting the bench, vigorously set to planing away at my bed, the while
first glimpse of sun entered the window, up he got, with stiff and grating
first you almost thought some ambitious young artist, in the time of the New
fish for the fun of it; and a three years' voyage round Cape Horn was only a
fish-bones coming through your clothes.  The area before the house was paved
fish; and from the shuddering cold and blackness of the sea, the whale came
fishermen's boats, I saw Hosea's brindled cow feeding on fish remnants, and
fishery as with the American army and military and merchant navies, and the
fishery, and so plainly did several women present wear the countenance if not
fishery, each mate or headsman, like a Gothic Knight of old, is always
fit; and closely wrapped up in it, and embalmed with inner health and
fit; and the silver calabash; and what Captain Peleg had said of him, when
five of us were summoned to our meal in an adjoining room.  It was cold as
fleets?  Why did Louis XVI.  of France, at his own personal expense, fit out
flesh, no superfluous beard, his chin having a soft, economical nap to it,
floating forts; even pirates and privateers, though following the sea as
flowering youth, for among all the fissures of his wrinkles, there shone
flukes!  man, what makes thee want to go a whaling, eh? --it looks a little
flying scud and dark-rolling clouds, there floated a little isle of sunlight,
foam-fountain, Queequeg seemed to drink and reel with me.  His dusky nostrils
follow.  First he takes about a double handful of shavings out of his grego
follow.  It is some systematized exhibition of the whale in his broad genera,
followed the streets that took me waterward, for there, doubtless, were the
following before me in New Bedford, ere I could embark for my destined port,
following, but I do not pretend to quote: -- Sacred To the Memory of John
foolish, ignorant whim of his crazy, widowed mother, who died when he was
fools, and murderers there may be; men may have mean and meagre faces; but
foot against the flinty projections, because from hard, remorseless
foot capsized and sank his canoe; climbed up the chains; and throwing
footmanism quite unprecedented in other planets, bow down before the torso
for a resurrection.  Sixteen hours in
for a shilling.  Upon entering the place I found a number of young seamen
for all his philosophy, there was a tear twinkling in his eye, when the
for almost all the tapers, lamps, and candles that burn round the globe,
for days and weeks and months afterwards I lost myself in confounding attempts
for him --the likes of ye.  Morning to ye, shipmates, morning!  Oh, when ye get
for his own harpoon, because it was of assured stuff, well tried in many a
for it in the entry, and seeming to hear nothing but the word clam, Mrs.
for long ages to come, and to endure always, as now; for be it Polar snow or
for me to join him; but well knowing what was to follow, I deliberated a
for one, shall not lay up many lays here below, where moth and rust do
for the Customs --"who's there?"  Oh!  how that harmless question mangles Jonah!
for the clothing I would wear out on it, not to speak of my three years' beef
for the missionary and the merchant, and in many cases carried the primitive
for the pots there were always boiling chowders.  Chowder for breakfast, and
for the three hundredth lay.  Captain Peleg, said I, I have a friend with
for, till one morning happening to take a stroll along the beach among some
forehead against mine, and blowing out the light, we rolled over from each
formed its back was adorned with a large painting representing a gallant ship
forth even beneath February's snow.  No one having previously heard his
forth, partly laden with imported cobble-stones --so goes the story --to throw
fortunes, and am quite content if the world is ready to board and lodge me,
found an empty ivory casket, --the poor little Indian's skeleton.  What wonder,
found some salvation, spite of his seven hundred and seventy-seventh lay;
found, and they were every one of them Americans; a Nantucketer, a
foundations, ribs, and very pelvis of the world; this is a fearful thing.
freckled woman with yellow hair and a yellow gown, standing in the porch of
freely, while imperturbable Bildad kept leading off with his psalmody.  Thinks
fresh surprise.  There was no hair on his head --none to speak of at least --
friends, before they quit the ship for good with the pilot.  But there was
frightened about his plaguy soul, that he shrinked and sheered away from
from astern (that is, if you never violate the Pythagorean maxim), so for
from before the house, for everywhere else the congealed frost lay ten inches
from behind Peleg's, out of the wigwam.  He must show that he's converted.
from deliberately stepping into the street, and methodically knocking
from him against the wall, and then conjured him, whoever or whatever he might
from him, with the fixed bayonet of his pointed finger darted full at the
from lanes and alleys, streets and avenues, --north, east, south, and west.
from me; but waking in the morning, I shudderingly remembered it all, and
from my ice-glazed hat and jacket, I seated myself near the door, and
from starvation by the benevolent biscuit of the whale-ship luckily dropping
from that wild pipe of his, and keeping it regularly passing between us.  If
from the Humane and Magnanimous Societies.  He only asked for water --fresh
from the cabin with orders so sudden and peremptory, that after all it was
from the docks, and heard a forlorn creaking in the air; and looking up,
from the fish.  But of my own knowledge, I know that down to the year
from the greatest subsequent misfortunes.  At last I must have fallen into a
from the other, as if each silent grief were insular and incommunicable.  The
from the quilt, they so blended their hues together; and it was only by the
from the surgeon.  But at that moment he chanced to turn his face so towards
from the water, Queequeg now took an instant's glance around him, and
from their ant-hill in the sea, overrun and conquered the watery world like
from this sure Keel of the Ages.  And eternal delight and deliciousness will
from which beamed forth an angel's face; and this bright face shed a distinct
from, the cabin to the planks.  It feels like going down into one's tomb,
frontiers.  So Jonah's Captain prepares to test the length of Jonah's purse,
frost this morning, ain't it?  Good bye to ye.  Shan't see ye again very
fugitive finds no refuge for his restless glance.  But that contradiction in
full of fine maples --long avenues of green and gold.  And in August, high in
full of marlinspikes, with the points out.  Says I, on second thoughts,"I
full sail, but he didn't make much headway, I thought.  At last some four or
full six feet in height, with noble shoulders, and a chest like a
fullest of trouble.  What business have I with this pipe?  This thing that is
furiously they mob him with their questions.  "What is thine occupation?
furls his sails, and lays him to his rest, while under his very pillow rush
further adorning it with his jack-knife, stooping over and diligently working
further to those latent influences which, in some honest-hearted men,
future.  Yes, we became very wakeful; so much so that our recumbent
gale howls louder; then, with one hand raised invokingly to God, with the
gangway, there!  side away to larboard--larboard gangway to starboard!
gaspings and strainings, I inferred he was hard at work booting himself;
gathered about a table, examining by a dim light divers specimens of
gave her to understand the whole case.  Unconsciously clapping the
generally occupied by the pilot is the forward part of the ship.  And here
generic name of Gay-Headers.  Tashtego's long, lean, sable hair, his high
genteelly.  We will not speak of all Queequeg's peculiarities here; how he
gentleman, at least for a sea captain --this commander was invited to the
get up and have some supper.  You'll starve; you'll kill yourself,
ghost!  What's that noise there?  You, young man, avast there!  And running
gifts.  Have an eye to the molasses tierce, Mr. Stubb; it was a little leaky,
girls breathe such musk, their sailor sweethearts smell them miles off shore,
give him much joy.  His voice at once announced
give this young man?
gives an order.  Step and growl; growl and go --that's the word with Captain
giving utterance to a long-drawn gurgling whistle of astonishment.  He would
glance.  "We sail with the next coming tide," at last he slowly answered,
glances of the passengers, a lubber-like assembly, who marvelled that two
glasses deceitfully tapered downwards to a cheating bottom.  Parallel
glasses, and in not altogether unpleasant sadness i{give} it up, sub-subs!
glazier.  True enough, thought I, as this passage occurred to my mind --old
glimpse of so outlandish an individual as Queequeg circulating among the
glistened in the moonlight; and like the white ivory tusks of some huge
glittering teeth resembling ivory saws; others were tufted with knots of
go a-whaling, to find out by experience what whaling is, but ye also want to
go in order to see the world?  Was not that what ye said?  I thought so.  Well
go round Cape Horn to see any more of it, eh?  Can't ye see the world where
gods!  go down to the fiery pit itself, in order to keep out this frost?  Now,
goin' out of the door with four heads strung on a string, for all the airth
going a-whaling, and there is plenty of that yet to come.  Let us scrape the
going it with a high hand on the quarter-deck, just as if they were to be
going to bed, yet no sign of my harpooneer.  Landlord!  said I, what sort of
gone a death-harvesting with such a hacking, horrifying implement.  Mixed with
good Christian; born and bred in the bosom of the infallible Presbyterian
good man --not a pious, good man, like Bildad, but a swearing good man
good-bye to a thing so every way brimful of every interest to him, --poor old
good-bye to thee --and wrong not Captain Ahab, because he happens to have a
good-humor of his; that thing must have been his pipe.  For, like his nose,
good.  Now, art thou the man to pitch a harpoon down a live whale's throat,
gore.  How now in the contemplative evening of his days, the pious Bildad
got a carpenter's plane there in the bar --wait, I say, and I'll make ye snug
gradually monopolizing the business of whaling, and though in this matter poor
grave.  As well might those tablets stand in the cave of Elephanta as here.
grave; where such as ye sleep between shrouds, to use ye to the filling one
great America on the other side of the sphere, Australia, was given to the
great Pilot Paul has it, while preaching to others is himself a castaway!
great are made so through a certain morbidness.  Be sure of this, O young
great expedition: when leaning back a moment and bethinking me of Mrs.
great glory to be slapped by a queen, and made garter-knights of; but, be
great hurry to resume scolding the man in the purple shirt, who was waiting
great man, and with a beautiful ivory leg, Stubb.  It's an honor; I consider
great rudeness; staring at him from the bed, and watching all his toilette
great whales on the high seas --entire strangers to them --and duelled them dead
greatest joke of the dream, Flask.  While I was battering away at the
greatly fear lest thy conscience be but a leaky one; and will in the end
green sapling; even then, in Queequeg's ambitious soul, lurked a strong
greybeards will oftenest leave their berths to visit the night-cloaked deck.
grinning like an ape.  The shavings flew right and left; till at last the
grocers, costermongers, doctors, bakers, and bankers.  And though this also
grooves out the bark from top to bottom, ere running off into the soil,
ground with their packs; what helped to bring about that almost impious
grow naturally; that they import Canada thistles; that they have to send
guess I won't kick you, old fellow." "Wise Stubb," said he,"wise Stubb;" and
guilty eye, skulking from his God; prowling among the shipping like a vile
guise?  I put it on, to try it, and it weighed me down like a hamper, being
gulp down your tears and hie aloft to the royal-mast with your  hearts; for
gun --a straight wake with ye!  As he thundered out this he made a rush at
guttural noises from the devotee, who seemed to be praying in a sing-song or
guttural responses satisfied me at once that he but ill comprehended my
had been killed by about two o'clock in the afternoon, and all cooked and
had best sit up with the body; telling him to establish himself accordingly.
had made a harpooneer of him, and that barbed iron was in lieu of a sceptre
had not been a small degree civilized, he very probably would not have
had not only been originally educated according to the strictest sect of
had nothing but his ordinary round jacket on.  For some time, do all I would,
had only just lifted my foot for it, when he roared out, "Stop that kicking!"
hair and horns on.  Out of the cabin, ye canting, drab-colored son of a wooden
hairs, and continuing right down one side of his tawny scorched face and neck,
half-crazy conceits on these subjects.  There was Queequeg, now, certainly
half-revealing, shrouded sort of talk, now begat in me
hammock lashed up, and thrown upon the floor in one corner; also a large
hammock, away we went down to the Moss, the little Nantucket packet
hand free; look here; are you talking about prying open any of my doors?
hand from the sailors on the forecastle.  He thinks he breathes it first; but
hand, Flask, fifty times more savage to bear than a blow from a cane.  The
hands at the windlass, who roared forth some sort of a chorus about the girls
hands grasping the ornamental knobs of the man-ropes, Father Mapple cast a
hands, especially as I now found him on board the Pequod, quite at home there
hands, including the captain, received certain shares of the profits called
hands.  He then donned his waistcoat, and taking up a piece of hard soap on
hands.  Turning back I accosted Captain Peleg, inquiring where Captain Ahab
harbor, and in concert selecting our craft; instead of this, I say, Yojo
hard pushed, I replied.  I mean, sir, the same ancient Catholic Church to
hard work out of them.  When Bildad was a chief-mate, to have his
hard-hearted to say the least.  He never used to swear, though, at his men,
harpoon from the bowsprit?  Now having a night, a day, and still another night
harpoon in his side; ever since then I allow no boarders to take sich
harpoon was missing.  He's killed himself, she cried.  It's unfort'nate
harpooneer and whaleman.  I mean Captain Scoresby.  On the separate subject of
harpooneer hears you a slanderin' his head.  I'll break it for him, said I,
harpooneer in his youth, but for many years past had dedicated his life to the
harpooneer, his linen or woollen, as the case might be, would not be of the
harpooneer, in the course of his distant voyages, must have met with a
harpooneer, is it?  Oh, no, said he, looking a sort of diabolically funny,
harpooneer.  And about this harpooneer, whom I have not yet seen, you
harpooning of his cheeks.  Thinks I, Queequeg, this is using Rogers's best
has just arrived from the south seas, where he bought up a lot of 'balmed New
has to do with aught that looks like death.  among sea-commanders, the old
hat-box, valise, or carpet-bag, --no friends accompany him to the wharf with
hauled upon the forecastle, the sailors flung it not rudely down, as by day,
have I been unconsciously toiling, not pleasuring, --aye, and ignorantly
have a hot supper smoking for ye in old Nantucket.  Hurrah and away!  God
have been all Martial Commanders whom the world invariably delights to honor.
have been surprised had I been offered the 200th, considering I was of a
have been.  Why did the Dutch in DeWitt's time have admirals of their whaling
have happened.  Apoplexy!  I tried to burst open the door; but it stubbornly
have reservoirs of oil in every house, and every night recklessly burn their
have soon flowered out in a smile.
have the fear of death; how, then, can'st thou prate in this ungodly guise.
have the heart to write it; for it is a thing most sorrowful, nay shocking,
have the satisfaction of knowing that it is all right; that everybody else
have their grace as well as we --though Queequeg told me that unlike us, who
have thought myself to have been optically deceived in that matter, were it
have ye?  Who's Old Thunder?  said I, again riveted with the insane
haven't seen it since I put it there.  Running to a little closet under the
having now led for many years the bold life of the fishery in the ships of
he at last succeeded in drawing out the biscuit; then blowing off the heat
he began feeling me.  Stammering out something, I knew not what, I rolled away
he being in other things such an extremely sensible and sagacious savage, it
he but embarks for the remotest Indies of this living earth; why the Life
he carried such a troublesome thing with him ashore, and whether all whaling
he could anyways find in any book whatsoever, sacred or profane.
he could be well likened to the short, square timber known by that name in
he couldn't sell it here, the market's overstocked.  With what?  shouted I.
he did not altogether remember how I came to be there, though a dim
he ever did chance to cast his mind that way after a comfortable dinner, no
he ever whaled it any?  turning to me.  Killed more whales than I can count,
he exclaimed I vum it's Sunday --you won't see that harpooneer to-night; he's
he felt a strong desire to have a few quiet puffs from his Tomahawk.  Be it
he had, there seemed no more left in him, and he, too, sat down like a lamb,
he not be blameworthy?  It is well known that at the coronation of kings and
he proposed to sail about, and sow his wild oats in all four oceans.  They
he refrained from making as much noise as the rest.  This man interested me
he sat; and all he could do --for all my polite arts and blandishments --he
he saw in the fountain, plunged into it and was drowned.  But that same
he soliloquized at last, withdrawing the tube, this smoking no longer
he swore was a sovereign cure for all colds and catarrhs whatsoever, never
he'll twitch you off soon.  I wonder he don't wake.  Queequeg removed himself
he;"let's argue the insult.  Captain Ahab kicked ye, didn't he?" "Yes, he
head now looked for all the world like a mildewed skull.  Had not the stranger
head-board with our four knees drawn up close together, and our two noses
head?  What's that stultifying saying about chowder-headed people?  But look,
headed the first watch, and ever and anon, as the old craft deep dived into
heads muffled in woollen comforters, all bedarned and ragged, and their
heads, as it generally does even with the arrantest topers newly landed from
headsman each of them belonged.  first of all was queequeg, whom Starbuck, the
heaped up --flaked up, with rose-water snow.  The starred and stately nights
hear a word about them matters and something more, eh?  No, I don't think ye
heard in the entry; the door was flung open, and in rolled a wild set of
heard the engulphed, repenting prophet when he cried.  Then God spake unto the
heart to undervalue even a congregation of ants worshipping a toad-stool; or
heart, take heart, O Bulkington!  Bear thee grimly, demigod!  Up from the spray
hearts' honeymoon, lay I and Queequeg --a cosy, loving pair.
heathenish array of monstrous clubs and spears.  Some were thickly set with
heathenish sharked waters, and by the beaches of unrecorded, javelin islands,
heavens attest.  Cetus is a constellation in the South!  No more!  Drive down
heavy-hearted cheers, and blindly plunged like fate into the lone Atlantic.
heeded them not, going along wheeling the barrow by turns, and Queequeg now
heightened at times by the ragged Elijah's diabolical incoherences uninvitedly
hell" --when the whale grounded upon the ocean's utmost bones, even then, God
her affrighted face from the steep gullies in the blackness overhead, aghast
her harbor, for a space we had biting Polar weather, though all the time
her three masts overboard in that typhoon on Japan, that same voyage when
herds of walruses and whales.
here at the north, been led to think untraditionally and independently;
here come more crowds, pacing straight for the water, and seemingly bound for
here placed by their surviving Shipmates.
hereditary dyspepsias nurtured by Ramadans.
hereditary foe.  The helmsman who steered by that tiller in a tempest, felt
hero there!
herself owned a score or two of well-saved dollars.  But it was startling to
hidden image, feeling but ill at ease meantime --to see what was next to
hides among the waves, he climbs them as chamois hunters climb the Alps.  For
high Heaven, they fall to casting lots, to see for whose cause this great
high time to take that individual aside and argue the point with him.  And
high, broad form, seemed made of solid bronze, and shaped in an unalterable
high;  consisting of the long, huge slabs of limber black bone taken from
highwaymen the road, they but plunder other ships, other fragments of the
him --a far, far upward, and inward delight --who against the proud gods and
him --bolt his door inside, and jump into his bed, not to be wakened by the
him overboard; suspended a cutlass over his naked wrists; Queequeg was the
him with such overbearing terrors in his aspect, that Stubb involuntarily
him, and at last, fully to test the truth, by referring the whole matter to
him, and the chowder being surpassingly excellent, we despatched it with
him, but for I don't know what, unless it was the cruel loss of his leg.  And
him, imputable to that adventurous maritime life he had led.  When he entered
him, leaving smooth water behind.  He goes down in the whirling heart of such
him, though now some time from home.  By hints, I asked him whether he did
him.  Yet even then beyond the reach of any plummet --"out of the belly of
him?  Yes, that was the thought coming up in me; but it would be the first
himself at full length upon the deck, grappled a ringbolt there, and swore not
himself.  Such a portentous and mysterious monster roused all my curiosity.
hint of Father Mapple, and finished the pulpit without a stairs, substituting
his Ramadan, we sallied out to board the Pequod, sauntering along, and
his adventurous career by wholly retiring from active life at the goodly age
his being behind, but passed on with my comrade, anxious to see whether the
his bleeding stump that brought that about, as any one might see.  I know,
his boat was killed by a Sperm Whale on the coast of Japan, August 3d,
his book, Lay not up for yourselves treasures upon earth, where moth--
his brown tattooed legs over mine, and then drawing them back; so entirely
his canoe, still afloat, among these thickets, with its prow seaward, he sat
his chowders.  In short, he plainly hinted that we could not possibly do
his claims, and the profound ignorance which, till some seventy years back,
his concluding exclamation, but said as calmly as I could, What you say is
his countenance yet had a something in it which was by no means disagreeable.
his drab vesture was buttoned up to his chin; and spectacles on nose, he
his ears were two golden hoops, so large that the sailors called them
his face, and left it like the complicated ribbed bed of a torrent, when the
his face, as much as to say, Nevertheless, friend Peleg, I can stand it;
his father dead and gone, he being very old and feeble at the last accounts.
his father's heathens.  Arrived at last in old Sag Harbor; and seeing what
his feet on the stove hearth, and in one hand was holding close up to his
his feet, while Queequeg, turning his back upon him, lighted his tomahawk
his forehead again against mine; and said his Ramadan was over.  Now, as I
his hardy sobriety and fortitude, there were certain qualities in him which
his heathenish way.  But being now interrupted, he put up the image; and
his keeping his arm at sea unmethodically in sun and shade, his shirt
his leg.
his log; a third time with a roll of flannel for the small of some one's
his look, as he silently turned over the leaves of the Book once more; and,
his made him a little waggish in the matter of whales; he followed these
his majesty the King, Queequeg's father.  Grace being said, -- for those people
his meadow, and there sleep his cattle; and up from yonder cottage goes a
his merits, were he presented to the company as a harpooneer, say; and if in
his mission, and sought to escape his duty and his God by taking ship at
his own proper person, afford stuff for a good joke to anybody, let him not
his part of the boat, as an old stage-driver is about the snugness of his box.
his prison.  Then Jonah prayed unto learn a weighty lesson.  For sinful as he
his quarter-deck.  There seemed no sign of common bodily illness about him,
his sacrificial fire of shavings, I sallied out among the shipping.  After
his ship.  To these questions they would answer, that he was getting better
his short, black little pipe was one of the regular features of his face.  You
his soul.  In all his cringing attitudes, the God-fugitive is now too plainly
his stern to me, bent over, and dragging up a lot of seaweed he had for a
his unearthly complexion, that part of it, I mean, lying round about, and
his untutored countrymen.  For at bottom --so he told me --he was actuated by a
his utilitarian character.  On his long, gaunt body, he carried no spare
his vessel.  the perpendicular parts of this side ladder, as is usually the
his vest.  Still, for all this immutableness, was there some lack of common
his wearied mates, seeking repose within six inches of his ivory heel, such
his, boldly dip into the Potluck of both worlds.  To all this I joyously
his; he owns it, as Emperors own empires; other seamen having but a right
history, could for the first time behold Father Mapple without the utmost
holding it to the light, with his mouth at the handle, he puffed out great
holds true of merchant vessels, yet not by any means to the same extent as
hollow tone, and turning round to me.  I dost, said I unconsciously, he was
holy?  Why did the Greeks give it a separate deity, and own brother of Jove?
home, nothing but the dead wintry bleakness of the sea had then kept him so
home, were mostly all carried ashore to the hospital, sore exhausted and worn
homewards, they drop them there again.  How it is, there is no telling, but
horns; yes, two of them, one for Queequeg, and one for me.  It's ominous,
horrors of the world, yet cannot withstand those more terrific, because more
hot latitudes, his flesh being hard as twice-baked biscuit.  Transported to
house comfortably in that respect, you had only to buy up eight or ten lazy
how it is that to his name who yesterday departed for the other world, we
however, he turned round --when, good heavens!  what a sight!  Such a face!  It
howled, and the cordage rang, his steady notes were heard, -- Sweet fields
howling night, when this corner-anchored old ark rocked so furiously.  On one
howling of the storm.  A brief pause ensued; the preacher slowly turned over
hows'ever, mayhap, ye've heard tell about the leg, and how he lost it; aye,
huge pockets of his broad-skirted drab coat, took out a bundle of tracts,
human hair; and one was sickle-shaped, with a vast handle sweeping round like
humility, he spake these words: Shipmates, God has laid but one hand upon
humorously or in earnest.  But concentrating all his crow's feet into one
humorousness, hinted that if Captain Ahab was pleased to walk the planks,
hundred and seventy-seventh!  Well, old Bildad, you are determined that I,
hundred gold coins for the apprehension of a parricide, and containing a
hundredth lay, I say.  Bildad laid down his book, and turning solemnly
hunted in the wake of the great whales of the sea; the unerring harpoon of
i can't tell; but as thou art still an impenitent man, captain Peleg, I
ibis and roasted river horse, that you see the mummies of those creatures in
ice from our frosted feet, and see what sort of a place this Spouter may
idea of peril so much enhances the popular conceit of the soldier's
idea of sailing in a vessel so questionably owned and temporarily commanded,
idleness perished from before him.  His own person was the exact embodiment of
idol; offered him burnt biscuit with Queequeg; salamed before him twice or
idolator.  So I kindled the shavings; helped prop up the innocent little
if a parcel of dark green frogs were running up the trunks of young palms.  It
if either by birth or other circumstances, he have what seems a half wilful
ignorance to this present day still reigns in all but some few scientific
ignorance.  Outward portents and inward presentiments were his.  And if at
ills, and that on no account can a monied man enter heaven.  Ah!  how
illuminated by the flame of the new-lit lamp.  Whether it was that this
image, we ourselves see in all rivers and oceans.  It is the image of the
immediate vicinity of the spot where I had thought to spend the night.  The
immediate vicinity.  That was my first kick.  Is that the way they heave in
imminent jeopardy of many heads, and grappling the beefsteaks towards him.
impenitent Peleg and his ways.  As for Peleg, after letting off his rage as
imperfect misty dawn, when we drew nigh the wharf.  There are some sailors
important to tell us, out with it; but if you are only trying to bamboozle
imposing way.  The whale never figured in any grand imposing way?  In
impossibility of replacing them at the remote harbors usually frequented, it
in Booble Alley, with hearty good will.  Nevertheless, not three days
in Parliament?  Who, but Edmund Burke!  True enough, but then whalemen
in a great hurricane; the half-foundered ship weltering there with its three
in a man of greatly superior natural force, with a globular brain and a
in a troubled reverie; then starting a little, turned and said: -- Ye've
in all respects safe to spend the night with him.  And in the first place,
in colleges, as well as 'mong the cannibals; been used to deeper wonders than
in faded jacket and patched trowsers; a rag of a black handkerchief
in fixed reality, and then I lay only alive to the comical predicament.  For
in for safe keeping.  La!  La, ma'am! --Mistress!  murder!  Mrs. Hussey!
in great wooden trenchers, and garnished round like a pilau, with breadfruit
in his countenance.  This savage was the only person present who seemed to
in ice, as in polished armor.  The long rows of teeth on the bulwarks
in it.  Besides, passengers get sea-sick --grow quarrelsome --don't sleep of
in lath and plaster--tied to counters, nailed to benches, clinched to desks.
in looking up at him; and a white man standing before him seemed a white flag
in my desk, then here I prospectively ascribe all the honor and the glory to
in my hammock!  Now, what do you think of that dream, Flask?  I don't know;
in question to be true; what disordered slippery decks of a whale-ship are
in quick and constant puffs, which blew back again into his face.  How now,
in short, everything betokened that the ship's preparations were hurrying to a
in some damp marshy place.  While narrating these things, every time Queequeg
in the South Seas; and perhaps the sun there produced these extraordinary
in the arm that wields a pick or drives a spike; that democratic dignity
in the cabin, and reading his Bible as if at his own fireside.  Now while
in the general consciousness you feel most delightfully and unmistakably warm.
in the old South Sea Voyages, those things were but the lifetime commonplaces
in the other, having just broken away from the occupation of attending to the
in the room.  I was all eagerness to see his face, but he kept it averted for
in the transition state -- neither caterpillar nor butterfly.  He was just
in the yard or garden of the victor; and then, one by one, they were placed
in this business of whaling; and as this business of whaling has somehow come
in this famous town.  Soon I proposed a social smoke; and, producing his pouch
in which some thousands of his hard earned dollars were invested; a ship, in
in which to carry his heavy chest to his boarding house.  Not to seem ignorant
in, in all New England.  It is a land of oil, true enough; but not like
in.  And there they stand--miles of them--leagues.  Inlanders all, they come
inasmuch as Yojo purposed befriending us; and, in order to do so, had already
incline him to superstition; but to that sort of superstition, which in some
include reference to Professor Irey's work.
including our own.
incoherently.  I hope ye'll have fine weather now, so that Captain Ahab may
incomplete indications but serve to torture us naturalists.  Thus speak of
indeed the proper element of our essences, though light be more congenial to
indeed?
independence of her sea; while the wildest winds of heaven and earth
indifference of his
indifference speaking a nature in which there lurked no civilized hypocrisies
indispensable to the business of housekeeping.  Just so with whaling, which
individual circumstances.  Like Captain Peleg, Captain Bildad was a well-to-do,
inexplicable in him.
infallibly light upon, for all the world as though it had turned out by
inferred that I ever go to sea as a passenger.  For to go as a passenger you
influence, which within the last sixty years has operated more potentially
injured eye, and carrying on a brisk scolding with a man in a purple woollen
injustice hereby done to us hunters of whales.  In the first place, it may be
inquiry of the neighbors, that you could any way arrive at an understanding
inserted in it, served to brace the ship against the icy concussions of those
insignificant bit of black wood?  Impossible!  But what is worship? --to do the
instance, the complete abasement of poor Starbuck's fortitude, scarce might I
instance?  Who aint a slave?  Tell me that.  Well, then, however the old
instant the ship shot by the bubble the sinking pipe made.  With slouched hat,
instead of a fore-mast hand; I never heard a better sermon.  Deacon
insulated Quakerish Nantucketer, was full of his insular prejudices, and
insult me.  It's an all-fired outrage to tell any human creature that he's
intensity has warmed the air, it then only glows to be looked at; the
interest, because there were certain engrafted clerical peculiarities about
interlacing round his eyes, which must have arisen from his continual
interposed the mustard-pot and vinegar-cruet, and the entire castor of her
interval I spent in deliberating what to say, was a fatal one.  Taking up his
intimate and confidential one in the highest degree.  I now demand of you to
into a sacrificial blaze.  Presently, after many hasty snatches into the
into bed with me, I thought it was high time, now or never, before the light
into countries where God does not reign, but only the Captains of this earth.
into the cold malicious waves, who should I see
into the inquiry as to the true method of dividing the cetacea into groups
into the wall on either side the pulpit.  Three of them ran something like the
into the yawning jaws
intolerable, it seemed so painfully and unnaturally
invaded the Atlantic and Pacific; and though a sworn foe to human bloodshed,
invest his money in a pedestrian trip to Rockaway Beach?  Why is almost every
invested the then fabulous and utterly unknown sperm-whale, and which
invested this old Manxman with preternatural powers of discernment.  So that
investing his neck.  A confluent small-pox had in all directions flowed over
involuntarily took an oath with yourself to find out what that marvellous
irrespective of Queequeg.  I have forgotten to mention that, in many things,
is a pretty large number, yet, when you come to make a teenth of it, you
is ever to become hospitable, it is the whale-ship alone to whom the credit
is getting better, and will be all right again before long.  All right again
is good, I am quick to perceive a horror, and could still be social with
is its prow.
is my twelfth -- So here goes again.  But how's that?  didn't he call me a dog?
is no telling how many things to be thought of, before the Pequod was fully
is on, and the chips were carted off a million years ago.  Poor Lazarus
is one way or other served in much the same way -- either in a physical or
is that a universal proverb says of them, that
is that what you mean, Mrs. Hussey?  says I; but that's a rather cold and
is the one charm wanting? --Water --there is not a drop of water there!  Were
is to him whose strong arms yet support him, when the ship of this base
is, Jonah does not weep and wail for direct deliverance.  He feels that his
island far away to the West and South.  It is not down in any map; true
island of Rokovoko, it seems, at their wedding feasts express the fragrant
isles of the sea, and all the ends of the earth, accompanying Old Ahab in the
issues, that whaling may well be regarded as that Egyptian mother, who bore
it an honor.  Listen, wise Stubb.  In old England the greatest lords think it
it became a matter of concernment where I was to eat and sleep meanwhile.  It
it fared with him as with the storm-tossed ship, that miserably drives along
it fast; and then shoulders the barrow and marches up the wharf.  Why, said
it in queequeg's hands, and then grasping them and the book with both his,
it must symbolize something unseen.  Can it be, then, that by that act of
it seems a sort of foolish to me, tho'.  May be, may be.  But it's made a
it seems, for some reason a huge favorite with them, they raised a cry of
it seems, had lent him one,
it to perish in that howling infinite, than be ingloriously dashed upon the
it was getting late, and my decent harpooneer ought to be home and going
it was the devil himself who had thus broken into my room at the dead of
it with a sticking-plaster shirt.  Still more, his very legs were marked, as
it would have washed some of that devil's blue off his face.  Do tell, now,
it, since you cite it; but, say what you will, there is no real dignity in
it--would they let me --since it is but well to be on friendly terms with all
it.  Here was a man some twenty thousand miles from home, by the way of Cape
it.  Now, take away the awful fear, and my sensations at feeling the
it; --didn't I tell ye, he was peddlin' heads around town? --but turn flukes
it; and it did not disincline me towards him; though I felt impatience at
it?  Why did the poor poet of Tennessee, upon suddenly receiving two handfuls
its axis against the side, a swinging lamp slightly oscillates in Jonah's
its intolerable weather behind us.  It was one of those less lowering, but
jack-knife gently whittling away at its nose, meanwhile humming to himself in
jacket, and threw it over him, as it promised to be a very cold night; and he
jacket, there was yet, it then seemed to me, many a pleasant haven in
jiffy; and so saying he lighted a candle and held it towards me, offering to
joint-commanders at sea, as well as to all appearances in port.  And, as for
joints in the present instance seemed unnecessary.  For I was not prepared to
joints, but with a cheerful look; limped towards me where I lay; pressed
jolly joke that lasted that length of time.  As a carpenter's nails are
jonah gasps.  then, in that contracted hole, sunk, too, beneath the ship's
jump from spar to spar, like a grasshopper in a May meadow.  And at first,
just as you please; i'm sorry i cant spare ye a tablecloth for a mattress,
just so I now did with Queequeg.  Queequeg, said I, get into bed now, and
just where I had left him; he had not stirred an inch.  I began to grow
keep me from catching it.  He's full of riddles; I wonder what he goes into
keeping a sharp look-out upon the hands: Bildad did all the purchasing and
kept muttering it all the time, a sort of eating of his own gums like a
kick?"  By the lord, Flask, I had no sooner said that, than he turned round
kill-e.  And so saying the lighted tomahawk began flourishing about me in the
killed that chap?  What him say?  said Queequeg, as he mildly turned to me.
kindhearted, who seemed resolved that, if she could help it, nothing should
knew nothing and says nothing of the great sperm whale, compared with which
knives and forks, shovels and tongs, napkins, nut-crackers, and what not, are
knocking up a peaceable inhabitant to inquire the way, we at last came to
know Ahab then.  Am I a cannon-ball, Stubb, said Ahab, that thou wouldst
know a man that, in his lifetime, has taken three hundred and fifty whales.  I
know, and I don't much care; for it seems to me that you must be a little
knowledge of the cetacea.  A field strewn with thorns.  All these
known.  The sailors mark him; more and more certain grow their suspicions of
knows?  Certain I am, however, that a king's head is solemnly oiled at his
lance!  aye, the keenest and the surest that out of all our isle!  Oh!  he
land like themselves, without seeking to draw their living from the bottomless
land trunk.  Likewise, there was a parcel of outlandish bone fish hooks on the
land wood, but deftly travelled over sheaves of sea-ivory.  Scorning a
land, covered with mangrove thickets that grew out into the water.  Hiding
land, though it but graze the keel, would make her shudder through and
land; loitering under the shady lee of yonder warehouses will not suffice.
landing of the stairs, she glanced in, and returning, told me that Queequeg's
landlady.  But all we said, not a word could we drag out of him; I almost
landlord cried, That's the Grampus's crew.  I seed her reported in the
landlord's.  It's broke a'ready, said he.  Broke, said I -- broke, do you
landlord) really had no other place for me, and the harpooneer was not
lantern came too near.  And he, too, did not a little run from cabin to deck
lap began counting the pages with deliberate regularity; at every fiftieth
large door mat, ornamented at the edges with little tinkling tags something
largeness, but Antarctic in their glittering expression --all this
last I slid off into a light doze, and had pretty nearly made a good offing
last all these fancies yielded to that one portentous something in the
last bales received, the lamp, flame and all, though in slight motion, still
last for ever, thank God, and his Ramadan only comes once a year; and I
last sunny deck, he seemed as unnecessary there as another mast.  But the
last, he turned to his comrade, with a final sort of look about him, -- Captain
last-mentioned haunts you see only sailors; but in New Bedford, actual
late to make any improvements now.  The universe is finished; the copestone
late, calling a sailor of the watch, he sent him below for his ivory stool,
latitude which we sailed, gradually leaving that merciless winter, and all
law, the whale is declared a royal fish.
layer were piled upon his brow, as ever all clouds choose the loftiest peaks
lead the way.  But I stood irresolute; when looking at a clock in the corner,
leads the world.  From thence it is the storm of God's quick wrath is first
leaning over sadly.  It stood on a sharp bleak corner, where that tempestuous
learned his name), I will just take this here iron, and keep it for you till
leaves her to the owners till all is ready for sea.  However, it is always as
leaving the tree still greenly alive, but branded.  Whether that mark was born
lee, even if that were safety!  For worm-like, then, oh!  who would craven
leg of ye.  Good night, landlord, said I, you may go.  I turned in, and
lengths in spermaceti candles.  In summer time, the town is sweet to see;
lesson to us all, because it is a story of the sin, hard-heartedness,
let him be, I say: and Heaven have mercy on us all --Presbyterians and Pagans
let's leave this crazy man.  But stop, tell me your name, will you?
letter-sorter in the Post-office is equal to it.  To grope down into the
leviathan himself?  In fact, the artist's design seemed this: a final theory
liable to a criminal prosecution.  Wall, said the landlord, fetching a long
liberal professions.  If a stranger were introduced into any miscellaneous
liberally provides the brains, the rest of the world as generously supplying
libraries and sailed through oceans; I have had to do with whales with these
lie and listen to me.  I then went on, beginning with the rise and progress
life.  I tore myself out of it in such a hurry that I gave myself a kink in
light in one hand, and that identical New Zealand head in the other, the
light looked so dim, and the place, for the time, looked
light, and felt it, and smelt it, and tried every way possible to arrive at
lighted his pipe, and leaning against the bulwarks, and mildly eyeing those
like a flash he darted out; gained her side; with one backward dash of his
like a marshal's baton.
like a string of inions.  This account cleared up the otherwise unaccountable
like another world, more strangely than the moon would to an Earthsman.  With
like him well enough; no fear, no fear.  he's a grand, ungodly, god-like
like leaves upon this shepherd's head, yet all were vain, unless the
like lightning, this harpooneer never noticed me at all.  But, after some
like mad, at something or other, never mind what.  Indolence and
like men going towards that ship a while ago?  Struck by this plain
like oysters observing the sun through the water, and thinking that thick
like that plan at all.  I had not a little relied on Queequeg's sagacity to
like the Tartar, when he holds back his fiery steed by clutching its jaw.  A
like the stained porcupine quills round an Indian moccasin.  There was a hole
like the worn nap of his broad-brimmed hat.  Such, then, was the person that I
like these, he usually abstained from patrolling the quarter-deck; because to
like these.  What bitter blanks in those black-bordered marbles which cover no
like to be private when they are sleeping.  And when it comes to sleeping with
likewise another answer to a question not put by them, but the unsolicited
likewise, against all mortal tribulations, Stubb's tobacco smoke might have
limber, portentous, black mass of something hovering in the
little Moss came snugly to anchor, and Queequeg and I went ashore; so we
little cabin-boy in short clothes of the drabbest drab, to a harpooneer in a
little complimented.  We then turned over the book together, and I endeavored
little devil did not seem to fancy such dry sort of fare at all; he never
little like a gallows.  Perhaps I was over sensitive to such impressions at
little out of his mind for a spell; but it was the sharp shooting pains in
little respond to the playful allurings of that girlish air.  More than once
little room in the third floor, undressed myself as slowly as possible so as
little withered old man, who, for their money, dearly sells the sailors
little, in the uncertain twilight, strangely peering from Queequeg to me.  It
livelihood!  They first caught crabs and quohogs in the sand; grown bolder,
living member --that makes the living insult, my little man.  And thinks I to
living, and not to be killed by them for theirs; and that hundreds of men had
loading them again to be in readiness anew.  For, when Stubb dressed, instead
locked within; the hatches were all on, and lumbered with coils of rigging.
lonely room; the fire burning low, in that mild stage when, after its first
long line of Folgers and harpooneers --all kith and kin to noble Benjamin
long precisely --having little or no money in my purse, and nothing particular
long see him, beating his tambourine; prelusive of the eternal time, when
long sharp teeth of the sperm whale, inserted there for pins, to fasten her
long time ago.  It came in as a sort of brief interlude and solo between more
long time listening to the long stories of some sailors who had just come from
long, from his first visit in the air, he withdrew into his cabin.  But after
long.  They called him King-Post on board of the Pequod; because, in form,
look towards His holy temple.  And here, shipmates, is true and faithful
look upwards, and then with a truly sailorlike but still reverential
look, that had there been policemen in
looked earnestly into his eyes, and said, Son of darkness, I must do my
looked for all the world like a strip of that same patchwork quilt.  Indeed,
looked right and left; looked everywhere and nowhere; and at last,
looker on.  Presently a rioting noise was heard without.  Starting up, the
looking at him a moment.  For all his tattooings he was on the whole a clean,
loud lament the parents saw their child borne out of sight over the wide
love once comes to bend them.  For now I liked nothing better than to have
love to sail forbidden seas, and land on barbarous coasts.  Not ignoring what
low ponderous beams above, and such old wrinkled planks beneath, that you
luggage safe, we stood on board the schooner.  Hoisting sail, it glided down
lungs are a sort of soft, d'ye see; thou dost not talk shark a bit.  Sure,
made a corner three points to the starboard, and that done, then ask the first
made a pilot in order to save the Nantucket pilot-fee to all the ships he was
made an utter island of by the ocean, that to their very chairs and tables
made of frozen sighs, and being a president of a temperance society, he only
made the sea and the dry land!"  Fear him, O Jonah?  Aye, well mightest thou
made to order either --rather pinched and tormented him at the first go off of
made up to sail in no other than a Nantucket craft, because there was a fine,
magnanimity of the sea which will permit no records.  At the same
magnitude of the figure it might at first deceive a landsman, yet the
main-mast.  Mr. Starbuck, drive 'em aft.  Strike the tent there! --was the
maintains a permanent obliquity with reference to the room; though, in truth,
majestic bulk and mystic ways; and so dead to anything like an apprehension
make out a supper for us both on one clam?  However, a warm savory steam from
makes one in a whole nation's census --a mighty pageant creature, formed for
makes this earth of ours an uncomfortable inn to lodge in; then I think it
malice towards him, though he had been skylarking with me not a little in the
man as you'll find anywhere in this fishery.  But we shall ere long see what
man gives himself out for a philosopher, I conclude that, like the dyspeptic
man should be so hopelessly lost to evangelical pagan piety.  At last we rose
man sleepe you --you sabbee?  Me sabbee plenty --grunted Queequeg, puffing
man we met where the place was: these crooked directions of his very much
man!  Oh!  most contemptible and worthy of all scorn; with slouched hat and
man, Captain Ahab; doesn't speak much; but, when he does speak, then you may
man, Ishmael's thy name, didn't ye say?  Well then, down ye go here, Ishmael,
man, but I was frightened.  Such a phiz!  But, somehow, next moment I was over
man, in the ideal, is so noble and so sparkling, such a grand and glowing
managers, the Fates, put me down for this shabby part of a whaling voyage,
manikin was a real baby preserved in some similar manner.  But seeing that it
manner.  You had almost thought I had been his wife.  The counterpane was of
manner.  his education was not yet completed.  He was an undergraduate.  If he
mantle of humanity over all my kind!  Bear me out in it, thou great democratic
many inland reapers and mowers, who go into the farmers' meadows armed with
many of her most daring harpooneers.  In the fishery, they usually go by the
many soldiers return to drink in all ladies' plaudits?  And if the
marching along the sand with each foot in a cod's decapitated head, looking
marchings, ever cullest Thy selectest champions from the kingly commons; bear
mariners enough.  Enveloped in their shaggy watch coats, and with their
mark?  But at this question, Queequeg, who had twice or thrice before taken
marvels of a thousand Patagonian sights and sounds, helped to sway me to my
massive forefinger at the vessel in question.  He was but shabbily apparelled
mast without coming home for it.  he has a quiver of 'em.  I was struck with
mate, Peleg said: Now, Mr. Starbuck, are you sure everything is right?
maternal side he boasted aunts who were the wives of unconquerable warriors.
matter almost indispensable to a thorough appreciative understanding of the
matter of my bedfellow.  However, a good laugh is a mighty good thing, and
matter with him; but he keeps close inside the house; a sort of sick, and
matter with you, shipmate?  In as calm, but rapid a manner as possible, I
matter with you?  He hain't been a sittin' so all day, has he?  said the
matter-of-fact question, I answered, saying,
mattress was stuffed with corn-cobs or broken crockery, there is no telling,
may be, he can't sell his head.  Can't sell his head? --What sort of a
may become jolly good bedfellows after all --there's no telling.
may tell thee the same.  I wish to warn thee.  It's a lie.  I know Captain
may, so long as that person does not kill or insult any other person,
me --but at the same time what could I think of a harpooneer who stayed out a
me a sign, with --"no suicides permitted here, and no smoking in the parlor;"
me by the shoulders, and slews me round.  "What are you 'bout?" says he.  Slid!
me of Captain Ahab, filled me with a certain wild vagueness of painfulness
me out in it, O God!
me out in it, thou just spirit of equality, which hast spread one royal
me to get into bed --rolling over to one side as much as to say --I wont touch a
me to understand that, in his land, owing to the absence of settees and sofas
me who wants to ship too --shall I bring him down to-morrow?  To be sure,
me.  But at length all the past night's events soberly recurred, one by one,
me.  I'll try a pagan friend, thought I, since Christian kindness has proved
me?  I don't stand right on my legs.  Coming afoul of that old man has a sort
mean they know he's only one leg; and that a parmacetti took the other off.
mean?  Sartain, and that's the very reason he can't sell it, I guess.
meanest thou, O sleeper!  arise!"  Startled from his lethargy by that direful
meaning.  Who-e debel you? --he at last said -- you no speak-e, dam-me, I
means ill-looking; quite the contrary.  His pure tight skin was an excellent
meant for sereneness, to send up mild white vapors among mild white hairs,
mechanically coiling a rope upon its pin, convulsively grasped stout Peleg by
meeting?  I never saw him going there, and I pass it every Lord's day.
melancholy rapidity, that as I mounted to the deck at the call of the forenoon
memories like these in him, and, moreover, given to a certain
memory of their absent conquering Earls, the golden helmeted suns!  For
memory shot her crystals as the clear ice most forms of noiseless twilights.
men, all athirst for gain and glory in the fishery.  They are mostly young,
men; but don't miss a fair chance either, that's rejecting Heaven's good
mere crossing of Siberia in a sledge drawn by dogs as Ledyard did, or the
mere thought of Queequeg--
merely lend new spells and potencies to the outward world.  Inward they turned
meridians rudely pecked into the glass, surround these footpads' goblets.
metaphysical point of view, that is; and so the universal thump is passed
metropolitan society, it would but slightly advance the general opinion of
middle of the room thinking.  I then took off my coat, and thought a little
might be ruminated here, concerning the essential dignity of this regal
might have been carted here from the ruins of some burnt district, and as the
might have been wasted.
millions in China.  He lives on the sea, as prairie cocks in the prairie; he
mimicking him behind his back.  I thought the bumpkin's hour of doom was come.
mind him, said I, Queequeg, come on.  But he stole up to us again, and
mind of how long standing, or whether caught off the coast of Labrador, or
ministry.  At the time I now write of, Father Mapple was in the hardy winter
minutes more, and he rose again, one arm still striking out, and with the
minutes or more he was seen swimming like a dog, throwing his long arms
minutest gestures and expressions, they plainly showed the uneasy, if not
misbehavior; anything indeed but condemning me to lie abed such an
misgiving.  A sort of crick was in my neck as I gazed up to the two remaining
missionaries to their first destinations.  If that double-bolted land, Japan,
mockingly embellished with all the gay flags of all the known nations of the world.
model for repentance.  Sin not; but if you do, take heed to repent of it like
moment whether, in case he invited me, I would comply or otherwise.  I was a
moment; then said excitedly, I am not used to be spoken to that way, sir;
momentous men.  They it was who by universal prescription commanded three of
money, how much is that, --I'll pay now."  For it is particularly written,
monkey jackets for morning gowns.  You could pretty plainly tell how long each
monstrousest parmacetty that ever chipped a boat! --ah, ah!  I was a little
more appals him.  The floor, the ceiling, and the side, are all awry.  "Oh!  so
more curious, Flask--you know how curious all dreams are-- through all this rage
more dignified than a whitewashed negro.  But there were some boobies and
more in my shirt sleeves.  But beginning to feel very cold now, half undressed
more my splintered heart and maddened hand were turned against the wolfish
more open water, the bracing breeze waxed fresh; the little Moss tossed the
more special leviathanic revelations and allusions of all sorts which are to
more starting to encounter all the terrors of the pitiless jaw; loath to say
more sweetly to me than then.  They were full of hope and fruition.  Spite of
more than one third understand me, couch my ideas simply as I would; and,
more than that.  Seven hundred and seventy-seventh, again said Bildad,
more till break of day; when, looking over the bedside, there squatted
more to concentrate the snugness of being in bed.  Because no man can ever
moreover he had assured us that cousin Hosea, as he called him, was famous for
morning.  But the chowder; clam or cod to-morrow for breakfast, men?  Both,
mortal combat, and deeply intimate with the hearts of whales.  In short, like
most of them all, one grand hooded phantom, like a snow hill in the air.
most violent knockings?  it seemed no bad idea; but upon second thoughts I
most young candidates for the pains and penalties of whaling
mother of that now mighty colony.  Moreover, in the infancy of the first
mother! --it will be the ruin of my house.  Has the poor lad a sister?  Where's
motions; for the time my curiosity getting the better of my breeding.
mould, like Cellini's cast Perseus.  Threading its way out from among his grey
mouth --the bar --when the wrinkled little old Jonah, there officiating, soon
mouth; whenever it is a damp, drizzly November in my soul; whenever I find
moved his lips.  All these strange antics were accompanied by still stranger
movements.  He answered, to go to sea again, in his old vocation.  Upon this,
much and earnest contemplation, and oft repeated ponderings, and especially by
much as a single glance; but appeared wholly occupied with counting the
much from the simple fact of the accident.  Look ye now, young man, thy
much prolonged sauntering and many random inquiries, I learnt that there
much reason to fear me, as I have to be afraid of him.  Better sleep with a
multitude of pages was excited.  With much interest I sat watching him.  Savage
mumbling tone quite audible.  I thought him the queerest old Quaker I ever saw,
muskets would not willingly have dared.  All that is made such a flourish of
must be remembered, that of all ships, whaling vessels are the most exposed
must be the matter.  I went to make the bed after breakfast, and the door
must indeed be a heathen.  Going to his heavy grego, or wrapall, or
must needs have a purse, and a purse is but a rag unless you have something
muttered --then, whoever should do that last office for the dead, would find a
muttered Stubb, as he found himself descending the cabin-scuttle.
my astonishment, he sat down again on the transom very quietly, and seemed
my conscience hangs in me!" he groans, "straight upward, so it burns; but the
my death, my executors, or more properly my creditors, find any precious MSS.
my lad; stricken, blasted, if he be, Ahab has his humanities!  As I walked
my linen would get on fire.  But thank heaven, at that moment the landlord
my little man, I kicked my leg right off!  And then, presto!  Ahab seemed a
my soul-bolts, but I'll--I'll--yes, I'll swallow a live goat with all his
myself all the while, mind, while I was stubbing my silly toes against that
myself involuntarily pausing before coffin warehouses, and bringing up the
mysterious harpooneer had been wearing it of a rainy day.  I went up in it to
mystery, and showed that the landlord, after all, had had no idea of fooling
nameless yeast.  A boggy, soggy, squitchy picture truly, enough to drive a
napping at short intervals, and Queequeg now and then affectionately throwing
narrative of a whaling-voyage?  Who, but no less a prince than Alfred the
native born Quaker one single jot, had not so much as altered one angle of
native island.  It must be so; yes, it's part of his creed, I suppose; 
natives.  But New Bedford beats all Water street and Wapping.  In these
nearly all the officers are.  Herein it is the same with the American whale
necessarily be half-starved.  This is the reason why most dyspeptic
necessarily small; but so far as it goes, it is of excellent quality,
necessitates a three-years' housekeeping upon the wide ocean, far from all
need mending.  Towards evening, when I felt assured that all his performances
need of profane words, however great the hurry, Peleg, said Bildad, but
need should be.  In a countryman, this sudden flame of friendship would have
needs scarcely to be told, with what feelings, on the eve of a Nantucket
negro-savage, with a lion-like tread --an Ahasuerus to behold.  Suspended from
nervous man distracted.  Yet was there a sort of indefinite, half-attained,
nett proceeds of the voyage, whatever that might eventually amount to.  And
never slept better in my life.
never speak to him, whatever he says.  Halloa!  what's that he shouts?  Hark!
new sails were coming on board, and bolts of canvas, and coils of rigging;
next day the ship would certainly sail.  So next morning, Queequeg and I took
next order.  As I hinted before, this whalebone marquee was never pitched
nigh the tail, and, like a restless needle sojourning in the body of a man,
nigh to drowning while yet afloat.  And ever, as the white moon shows
night in the same room with a wide awake pagan on his hams in this dreary,
night's hospitalities, he made out to ask me whether we were again to be
night-watches in the remotest waters, and beneath constellations never seen
night.  In fact, I was so afraid of him that I was not game enough just then
night; how Orion glitters; what northern lights!  Let them talk of their
nightmare to a dead sartainty.  Landlord, I whispered, that aint the
nights --do not enjoy themselves much, as a general thing; --no, I never go as a
no answer.  I tried to open it, but it was fastened inside.  Queequeg, said
no doubt true enough, sir; but how could I know there was any peculiar
no idea of sleeping with a madman; and you, sir, you I mean, landlord, you,
no quarter in the truth, and kills, burns, and destroys all sin though he
no small surprise, considering that he was such an interested party in these
no white sailor seriously contradicted him when he said that if ever Captain
noble craft, but somehow a most melancholy!  All noble things are touched
noble tragedies.  Nor will it at all detract from him, dramatically regarded,
noise on deck.  Halloa!  Starbuck's astir, said the rigger.  He's a lively
noise the door flew open, and the knob slamming against the wall, sent the
noise; hinting something indistinctly and hesitatingly about a globe of tow,
nor in the spring-time do they pave them with fresh eggs.  Yet, in spite of
nor of the recovery from any.  He looked like a man cut away from the stake,
nose as without his pipe.
not Lazarus rather be in Sumatra than here?  Would he not far rather lay him
not among torn iron-grey locks like mine.  I'll smoke no more-- He tossed the
not be unreasonably ambitious of; if hereafter I shall do anything that,
not for Elijah's otherwise inexplicable question.  But I beat the thing down;
not four feet off --sitting there in that uneasy position, stark alone in
not much chance to think over the matter, for Captain Peleg was now all
not propose going back, and having a coronation; since he might now consider
not so.  In much the same way do the commonalty lead their leaders in many
not till he was full forty years old did Ahab become that way branded, and
not?  said I; every true whaleman sleeps with his harpoon --but why not?
nothing above hatches was seen of Captain Ahab.  The mates regularly relieved
nothing but a good coat of tropical tanning; but I never heard of a hot sun's
nothing but a humbug, trying to be a bugbear.  But we had not gone perhaps
nothing but a small scalp-knot twisted up on his forehead.  His bald purplish
nothing surprising in this.  If they but knew it, almost all men in their
nothing, and tried to think nothing.  At last it was given out that some time
nothing; I leave eternity to Thee; for what is man that he should live out
notice my entrance; because he was the only one who could not read, and,
notice my presence in any the slightest way.  I wonder, thought I, if this can
noticed these advances; but presently, upon my referring to his last
now flying into a passion again at this unaccountable farrago of the
now full of the boarders who had been dropping in the night previous, and
now repeated to Peleg.  Seeing me so determined, he expressed his willingness
now the time of tide has come; the ship casts off her cables; and from the
now we'll have the latest news from the Feegees.  A tramping of sea boots was
now, for the last thirty years, to my certain knowledge.  How far ye got,
now.  I asked him what might be his immediate purpose, touching his future
now; and thus chase away, for that one interval, the clouds that layer upon
numberless mortals who have died exhaling it; and as in time of the cholera,
numerous articles peculiar to the prosecution of the fishery, and the
object here is simply to project the draught of a systematization of cetology.
object.  Yes, said I, we have just signed the articles.  Anything down
objections to sharing a harpooneer's blanket, have ye?  I s'pose you are goin'
oblige my friend and me by withdrawing.  We are going to the Indian and Pacific
obvious; Pequod, you will no doubt remember, was the name of a celebrated
occurred to me.  I remembered a story of a white man --a whaleman too--who,
ocean with me.  There now is your insular city of the Manhattoes, belted round
of Ahab affect me, and the livid brand which streaked it, that for the first
of God --never mind now what that command was, or how conveyed --which he found
of The Trap.  However, I picked myself up and hearing a loud voice within,
of Tisbury, in Martha's Vineyard.  A short, stout, ruddy young fellow, very
of a certain venerable robustness entered; immediately as the storm-pelted
of a deceased landed proprietor merely on account of the inordinate
of a fifth wheel to a wagon.  What are you jabbering about, shipmate?  said
of a healthy old age; that sort of old age which seems merging into a second
of a sea-captain orders me to get a broom and sweep down the decks?  What does
of a valor-ruined man.  Nor can piety itself, at such a shameful sight,
of all its crew; if thou still clingest to thy Pagan ways, which I sadly
of all sorts, so that the landlady should not make much profit by reason of
of all sorts, the king, chiefs, and great people generally, were in the
of any possible danger from encountering them; that in his poor opinion, the
of families from our own island of Nantucket?  Why did Britain between the
of finding it out before ye bind yourself to it, past backing out.  Clap eye
of first putting his legs into his trowsers, he put his pipe into his mouth.
of his own brothers.  He might take a fancy to mine --heavens!  look at that
of its purpose.  such unaccountable masses of shades and shadows, that at
of making my own summer with my own coals.  But what thinks Lazarus?  Can he
of material and device, unmatched by anything except it be Thorkill-Hake's
of me imagine.  This circumstance, coupled with his ambiguous, half-hinting,
of me, and secretly dogs me, and influences me in some unaccountable way --he
of men be plunged in his deepest reveries--stand that man on his legs, set his
of my own, partly based upon the aggregated opinions of many aged persons
of oil is used at coronations?  Certainly it cannot be olive oil, nor macassar
of our heroic Nantucketers.  Often, adventures which Vancouver dedicates three
of polished ivory.  She was a thing of trophies.  A cannibal of a craft,
of seamen, spurned his suit; and not all the King his father's influence
of shipping ye.  Well, sir, I want to see what whaling is.  I want to see
of ships from China; some high aloft in the rigging, as if striving to get a
of silver, deliberate whether to buy him a coat, which he sadly needed, or
of sixty, and dedicating his remaining days to the quiet receiving of his
of something queer about that, eh?  a white whale--did ye mark that, man?  Look
of stalwart frames; fellows who have felled forests, and now seek to drop
of that tempestuous wind called Euroclydon, says an old writer --of whose
of the Try Pots, whom he asserted to
of the cloth called bearskin, I fought my way against the stubborn storm.
of the fish's belly.  But observe his prayer, and so many white bolts, upon
of the marchant service to me again.  Marchant service indeed!  I suppose now
of the primitive religions, and coming down to the various religions of the
of the relatives of the seamen whose names appeared there were now among the
of the ship, like her beef and her bread, and not to be foolishly wasted.
of the tusks of the narwhale.  How could one look at Ahab then, seated on that
of them ever come back.  Black Little Pip --he never did --oh, no!  he went
of this head-peddling purple rascal altogether passed my comprehension.
of thy ocean-perishing --straight up, leaps thy apotheosis!
of turned me wrong side out.  By the Lord, I must have been dreaming, though
of water within the walls.  But the side ladder was not the only strange
of way through it.  Merchant ships are but extension bridges; armed ones but
of wood on his head.  For heaven's sake, Queequeg, get up and shake yourself;
of your nose or the crown of your head be slightly chilled, why then, indeed,
off his tatters with his shiverings, he might plug up both ears with rags,
officer on ship-board --yet, somehow, I never fancied broiling fowls; --though
offing this morning; a three years' voyage, and a full ship.  Hurrah, boys;
offspring themselves pregnant from her womb.  It would be a hopeless, endless
often lie and chat over old times till nearly morning.  Thus, then, in our
oil, nor castor oil, nor bear's oil, nor train oil, nor cod-liver oil.  What
old Gay-Head Indian once; but like his dismasted craft, he shipped another
old Nantucket is now much behind her, yet Nantucket was her great original
old hempen thews and tendons to.  Those thews ran not through base blocks of
old lady of a most determined and indefatigable spirit, but withal very
old woman, he must have broken his digester.  As I sat there in that now
omnipotent is art; which in many a district of New Bedford has superinduced
on Captain Ahab, young man, and thou wilt find that he has only one leg.
on an old-fashioned oaken chair, wriggling all over with curious carving; and
on him with a quick fear that was strange to them.  There now came a lull in
on its back, and exactly the color of a three days' old Congo baby.
on my handspike, and told Queequeg to do the same, thinking of the perils we
on so bitter a night, I would put up with the half of any decent man's
on the weather side of an ice-island.  The liquor soon mounted into their
once broiled, judiciously buttered, and judgmatically salted and peppered,
once; why, the end of it --the foot part --what a small sort of end it is;
one had been ashore.  This young fellow's healthy cheek is like a sun-toasted
one in-doors, with his feet on the hob quietly toasting for bed.  In judging
one knows that in most people's estimation, to do anything coolly is to do it
one of the licensed pilots of the port --he being suspected to have got himself
one of the mighty triumphs given to a Roman general upon his entering the
one of those tall mountaineers from the Alleganian Ridge in Virginia.  When
one removed, and hung up in a little space in an adjacent corner; when,
one side, New Bedford rose in terraces of streets, their ice-covered trees
one, they look so bony.  The town itself is perhaps the dearest place to live
only a twelvemonth old.  And yet the old squaw Tistig, at Gayhead, said that
only begins a third, and so on, for ever and for aye.  Such is the
only by diligent study and a series of systematic visits to it, and careful
only harpooneers, cannibals, and bumpkins to show her visitors.  Not at all.
only meat and potatoes, but dumplings; good heavens!  dumplings for supper!
only some of us cherish some queer crotchets noways touching the grand belief;
only there was a fine and almost microscopic net-work of the minutest wrinkles
only two books in being which at all pretend to put the living sperm whale
only upon one memorable occasion.  It was after a great feast given by his
only); after listening to these plum-puddingers till nearly eleven o'clock,
open, and in the wild conceits that swayed me to my purpose, two and two
operated as a sort of disinfecting agent.  The third mate was Flask, a native
or chapel for his Congo idol.  I now screwed my eyes hard towards the half
or elbowed in the assault; and moreover, as there generally subsists between
or slit in the middle of this mat, as you see the same in South American
or taking away one particle from their compacted aged robustness.  His whole
orchard
organizations seems rather to spring, somehow, from intelligence than from
oriental summer climes of everlasting conservatories; give me the privilege
original matter touching the sperm whale to be found in their volumes is
orphans, many of them --and that if we too abundantly reward the labors of this
other chaps, abruptly said the stranger, placing a nervous emphasis upon the
other dragging a lifeless form.  The boat soon picked them up.  The poor
other lights; weigh it in all sorts of scales; see what we whalemen are, and
other must go with him, I suppose; as well these as any other men, God pity
other they not unreluctantly lay hold of Jonah.  And now behold Jonah taken up
other things, at the same time that the leaders little suspect it.  But
other, this way and that, and very soon were sleeping.
other.  Meanwhile, upon questioning him in his broken fashion, Queequeg gave
our clayey part.  Upon opening my eyes then, and coming out of my own pleasant
our divine equality!  If, then, to meanest mariners, and renegades and
our half frozen fingers.  But the fare was of the most substantial kind --not
our offing gained, the Moss did homage to the blast; ducked and dived her
ourselves almost broad upon the wintry ocean, whose freezing spray cased us
ourselves, so far within us, that it remains intact though all the outer
out from the east, and the sea is still, as Jonah carries down the gale with
out from the wharf, and after the ever-thoughtful Charity had come off in a
out of 'em; no harpooneer is worth a straw who aint pretty sharkish.  There
out of Nantucket, that were as great, and greater than your Cooke and your
out upon this special errand.  The sky had changed from clear,
out when he obeyed the order, and not sooner.  What, perhaps, with other
out.  For a pious man, especially for a Quaker, he was certainly rather
outline one for the present, hereafter to be filled in all its departments by
outside; a man can be honest in any sort of skin.  But then, what to make of
over comfortable, and have been so a long time, then you cannot be said to
over him, as over the man who bleeds to death, for conscience is the wound,
over his head, and at the next jerk, the spar was that way trapped, and all
over like a bench on the Battery.  At one end a ruminating tar was still
over the bed.  Though none of the most elegant, it yet stood the scrutiny
over the bulwarks, took a good long look at Queequeg.  How long hath he been
over the pulpit, deliberately drag up the ladder step by step, till the whole
over the weather bow, I perceived that the ship swinging to her anchor with
overflowing, redundant days, were as crystal goblets of Persian sherbet,
overlapping spurs of mountains bathed in their hill-side blue.  But though
overruling morbidness at the bottom of his nature.  For all men tragically
owing to the barbaric white leg upon which he partly stood.  It had previously
own skin.  The more I pondered over this harpooneer, the more I abominated
own, and now a retired seaman, and one of the principal owners of the
own.  Yet now, federated along one keel, what a set these Isolatoes were!  An
owners uncommonly heedful of what manner of men they shipped; daggoo retained
pace he was measuring the ship from taffrail to mainmast, Stubb, the odd
page --as I fancied --stopping a moment, looking vacantly around him, and
page, said: Beloved shipmates, clinch the last verse of the first chapter of
pages of the marvellous book.  Considering how sociably we had been sleeping
paid the fare thereof" ere the craft did sail.  And taken with the context,
pained me, very badly pained me, to see him now so deplorably foolish about
painful, consciousness of being under a troubled master-eye.  And not only
painting meant.  Ever and anon a bright, but, alas, deceptive idea would dart
pair of prodigious black pots too!  Are these last throwing out oblique hints
panelled front was in the likeness of a ship's bluff bows, and the Holy Bible
paper fireboard.  By certain signs and symptoms, I thought he seemed anxious
papers.  Yea, said Captain Bildad in his hollow voice, sticking his head
part in similar ceremonies, looked no ways abashed; but taking the offered
part of the deck.  The poor fellow whom Queequeg had handled so roughly, was
particular connexion, thought I. But it is a common name in Nantucket,
particular, perhaps, about the
particularly if you come of an old established family in the land, the van
particularly to get into his pantaloons as soon as possible.  He complied,
partly lying on it as the arm did when I first awoke, I could hardly tell it
passage
passage in this ship to Tarshish; how soon sail ye, sir?"  Thus far the busy
passenger; nor, though I am something of a salt, do I ever go to sea as a
patchwork, full of odd little parti-colored squares and triangles; and this
path of the boom, whipped hold of a rope, secured one end to the bulwarks,
paying me for my trouble, whereas they never pay passengers a single penny
peace with our own consciences and all the world.  But we did not go to sleep
pear in hue, and would seem to smell almost as musky; he cannot have been
pearl; Thou who didst clothe with doubly hammered leaves of finest gold, the
peculiar disposition; for every one knows that this earthly air, whether
peculiar, it only results again from another phase of the Quaker, modified by
peculiarities of the Quaker, only variously and anomalously modified by
peculiarities, a thousand bold dashes of character, not unworthy a
peddling, you see, and I don't see what on airth keeps him so late, unless,
pen, copied upon the paper, in the proper place, an exact counterpart of a
penniless.  In this world, shipmates, sin that pays its way can travel freely,
people had departed, and he was left alone in the place.
people still happier than they were; and more than that, still better than
people's hats off--then, I account it high time to get to sea as soon as I can.
pequod to lay the world's grievances before that bar from which not very many
perfectly still, and resolved not to say a word till spoken to.  Holding a
performing the part I did, besides cajoling me into the delusion that it was
peril; her only friend her bitterest foe!  Know ye, now, Bulkington?
perilous and long voyage ended, only begins a second; and a second ended,
perilous vicissitudes of the fishery.  I will have no man in my boat, said
persist in telling me the most mystifying and exasperating stories, tending
persisting in fighting a fish that too much persisted in fighting him.  For,
person i met --the chambermaid.  la!  la!  she cried, i thought something
persuade.  And if we obey God, we must disobey ourselves; and it is in this
persuasiveness of the pleasant, holiday weather we came to, seemed gradually
pertaining to the respective duties of the ship's company.
philosophy; though no doubt he had never heard there was such a thing as
physical isolation, he signifies his spiritual withdrawal for the time, from
picking our teeth with halibut bones.
picture's midst.  That once found out, and all the rest were plain.  But stop;
pictures that were in it.  Thus I soon engaged his interest; and from that we
pilot cloth jacket seemed almost to drag him to the floor with the weight of
pipe and passed it to me for a puff.  Capting!  Capting!  yelled the
pitch, all betokening that new cruises were on the start; that one most
pitched upon a vessel, which, if left to myself, I, Ishmael, should
pivot-hole, or seated upon an ivory stool he had; or heavily walking the
place, he somehow seemed dull of hearing on that important subject, unless
placed himself over against the punchbowl, and between the High Priest and
placed in mine.  My arm hung over the counterpane, and the nameless,
places never are.  When a new-hatched savage running wild about his native
plain they but commanded vicariously.  Yes, their supreme lord and dictator
plane-iron came bump against an indestructible knot.  The landlord was near
plaster to the ceiling; and there, good heavens!  there sat Queequeg,
plate now inserted into the Victory's plank where Nelson fell.  Ah, noble
please, and ten to one it carries you down in a dale, and leaves you there
pleasing to God was this conduct in Jonah, is shown in the eventual
plenty of them in the tropic voyage ye go.  Be careful in the hunt, ye mates.
pluck it out from under the robes of Senators and Judges.  Delight,
pocket, and places them carefully before the idol; then laying a bit of ship
pockets, and produced at length a curious little deformed image with a hunch
point out the whaler best fitted to carry us and our fortunes securely.  But
poison.  Though true cylinders without --within, the villanous green goggling
policy of insurance.  I was only alive to the condensed confidential
polite society of a civilized town, that astonishment soon departed upon
polite they are.  I pay this particular compliment to Queequeg, because he
politeness.  Clam or Cod?  she repeated.  A clam for supper?  a cold clam;
ponchos.  But could it be possible that any sober harpooneer would get into
pondered some time without fully comprehending the reason for this.  Father
ponderous heart; who has also by the stillness and seclusion of many long
popped out of the room, the harpooneer might be standing in the entry, all
position began to grow wearisome, and by little and little we found ourselves
positively indispensable to do so; not to be got rid of, that is; which I
possessions yet owned and rented in his name.  I say, we good Presbyterian
possibility, there be any as yet undiscovered prime thing in me; if I shall
possibly be a part of his Ramadan; do they fast on their hams that way in his
poured them out brimmers all round.  One complained of a bad cold in his head,
power.  Nearly all joined in singing this hymn, which swelled high above the
practical world quite another.  This world pays dividends.  Rising from a
prairie; that they wear quicksand shoes, something like Laplander snowshoes;
pre-eminently presuming and ridiculous.  Doubtless one leading reason why the
prefix so significant and infidel a word, and yet do not thus entitle him, if
preliminaries to settle.  first: the uncertain, unsettled condition of this
preparation, Queequeg and I often visited the craft, and as often I asked
present the whole story such as it may prove in the mere skeleton I give.
present time, during which time I labored to show Queequeg that all these
pretty
prevail, habitually, the silent steersman would watch the cabin-scuttle; and
previous had taken from him, before our mounting to the chamber.  That's
previous to putting your hand into the tar-pot, you have been lording it as a
previous, Bildad had told them that no profane songs would be allowed on
pricking him, as the plungings of the Roman race-horse but so much the more
principles.  Think not, is my eleventh commandment; and sleep when you can,
private when putting on his boots.  But Queequeg, do you see, was a creature
proceeded far, when I began to bethink me that the captain with whom I was to
proceedings; Bildad never heeded us, but went on mumbling to himself out of
process, because in common life we esteem but meanly and contemptibly a
proclamation.  This is Charing Cross; hear ye!  good people all, --the
prodigious bed, almost big enough indeed for any four harpooneers to sleep
profession; let me assure ye that many a veteran who has freely marched up to
professor.  Yes, as every one knows, meditation and water are wedded for ever.
profound desire to learn among the Christians, the arts whereby to make his
prophet!  What
prospect was unlimited, but exceedingly monotonous and forbidding; not the
proud warrior hunters, who, in quest of the great New England moose, had
proved to be.  For now the savage goes up to the empty fireplace, and removing
provides him with a fresh lance, when the former one has been badly twisted,
providing at the stores; and the men employed in the hold and on the rigging
provinces on the Pacific coast.  It was the whaleman who first broke through
pugnacious concerning whales, who somehow seemed to think that the great
pulled out a sort of tomahawk, and a seal-skin wallet with the hair on.
pulpit, it had not escaped me that however convenient for a ship, these
pulpit.  It was a negro church; and the preacher's text was about the
pursuit of him.  It was now about nine o'clock, and the room seeming almost
pursuit; therefore, I am all anxiety to convince ye, ye landsmen, of the
pushed on and opened a second, interior door.  It seemed the great Black
putting them on very carefully, came out of the wigwam, and leaning stiffly
puzzled by this curious request, not knowing exactly how to take it, whether
puzzled us at first, especially as, at the outset, Queequeg insisted that the
pyramid, a sort of badger-haired old merman, with a hump on his back, takes
pyramid, and I, like a blazing fool, kept kicking at it.  But what was still
queens, even modern ones, a certain curious process of seasoning them for
queer dream, King-Post, I never had.  You know the old man's ivory leg, well
queer proceedings increased my uncomfortableness, and seeing him now
queer round figure which was tattooed upon his arm; so that through Captain
queer sort of place --a gable-ended old house, one side palsied as it were, and
quick foam from her bows, as a young colt his snortings.  How I snuffed that
quiet enough, and the dilapidated little wooden house itself looked as if it
quietest, most enchanting bit of romantic landscape in all the valley of the
quite as much as I can do to take care of myself, without taking care of
raging sea, feels not the reeling timbers, and little hears he or heeds he
rainbow over his disastrous set of sun; then against all mortal critics bear
raised full three per cent.  within the year.  Don't forget your prayers,
rather Christians, had unfitted him for ascending the pure and undefiled
rather distrustful of all aliens, unless they hailed from Cape Cod or the
rather not sleep with your own brother.  I don't know how it is, but people
rather than to appal!  Woe to him whose good name is more to him than goodness!
rather too scarce a good thing; the more's the pity.  So, if any one man, in
rather wigwam, pitched a little behind the main-mast.  It seemed only a
reach of his hand; and, whenever he turned in, he smoked them all out in
ready to knock me down!  Still, looking around me again, and seeing no possible
ready to turn her hand and heart to anything that promised to yield safety,
really dogging us or not, and with that intent crossed the way with Queequeg,
rear of every funeral I meet; and especially whenever my hypos get such an
received the tomahawk from me, he flourished the hatchet-side of it over the
receiving all nature's sweet or savage impressions fresh from her own virgin
receiving the last items of her cargo; and as he steps on board to see its
reconciled these things in the reminiscence, I do not know; but it did not
recurring to me, with a subtle energy I could not have before conceived of.
red men, which has long supplied the neighboring island of Nantucket with
red roses.  But roses only bloom in summer; whereas the fine carnation of
reflections just here are occasioned by the circumstance that after we were
refuse resurrections to the beings who have placelessly perished without a
regularly graded retreating slope from above the brows, which were likewise
regulating the circulation.  Whenever I find myself growing grim about the
relented, and told him he might make himself at home.  But this fine young
relief, As on a radiant dolphin borne; Awful, yet bright, as lightning shone
religionists cherish such melancholy notions about their hereafters.  In one
religious obligations, never mind how comical, and could not find it in my
remain over the cabin table, having a farewell merrymaking with their shore
remarkable in themselves, and so continuously momentous in their sequential
repentance; not clamorous for pardon, but grateful for punishment.  And how
representing a tall straight jet of misty spray, and these words underneath
requiring only a little circumvention and some small application of time and
research in the unfathomable waters.  Impenetrable veil covering our
respectable toils, trials, and tribulations of every kind whatsoever.  It is
rest.  Uncommonly conscientious for a seaman, and endued with a deep natural
rested on the projecting piece of scroll work, fashioned after a ship's
restrain the gush of dare-devil daring, so often evinced by others in the more
retired whaleman.  But unlike Captain Peleg --who cared not a rush for what
retreated.  I was never served so before without giving a hard blow for it,
retreats and whale-ports; this usurpation has been every way complete.
return, --as soon as he felt himself baptized again.  For the nonce, however,
reverence, the wild watery loneliness of his life did therefore strongly
reveries.  Some leaning against the spiles; some seated upon the pier-heads;
revulsion.  Nor did I at all object to the hint from Queequeg that perhaps it
rheumatic back.  Never did any woman better deserve her name, which was
ring-bolts, and would talk of securing the top-sail halyards to them.  In his
ripped and swore astern in the most frightful manner.  I almost thought he
roared Peleg, starting up and clattering about the cabin.  Blast ye, Captain
roared the Captain, I'll kill-e you, you cannibal, if you try any more of
robbed a widow;" or,"Joe, do you mark him; he's a bigamist;" or,"Harry lad,
robust healthy boy with a robust healthy soul in him, at some time or other
rolling off --serenest azure is at hand.  Nor was the pulpit itself without a
room, he went about his business, and left me in a brown study.  I now took
room, wrapped up in his great pilot monkey jacket, and sporting his harpoon
room; and the ship, heeling over towards the wharf with the weight of the
round --you enter the public room.  A still duskier place is this, with such
round it; peeped in at Behring's Straits; and in all seasons and all oceans
round the waist, and said that henceforth we were married; meaning, in his
round, and all hands should rub each other's shoulder-blades, and be
row?  It's not a real leg, only a false leg."  And there's a mighty difference
rows to peer; and beyond, a black Angel of Doom was beating a book in a
rude shelf, the four walls, and a papered fireboard representing a man
ruggedest, most thunder-cloven old oak will at least send forth some few green
rumor of a knocking in a tomb will terrify a whole city.  All these things
running ahead there, if I see right, said I to Queequeg, it can't be
running away from it to the southward; and by every degree and minute of
rushing waters have been dried up.  Have ye shipped in her?  he repeated.
sadly vitiated, I fear, by the cannibal propensity he nourished in his
sage and sensible conclusion that a man's religion is one thing, and this
said Bildad sternly, thou art skylarking with me --explain thyself, thou
said I, looking dubiously at the sleeper.  But it seemed that, when on the
said Queequeg, quietly hauling in the line, spos-ee him whale-e eye; why,
said Queequeg, shaking himself, go 'way!  Aint going aboard, then?  Yes,
said peleg.  fetch him along, and we'll look at him.  What lay does he
said quickly.  no matter though, i know many chaps that hav'n't got any,
said the landlady, quickly putting down the vinegar-cruet, so as to have one
said, drawing back his whole arm, and then rapidly shoving it straight out
said, that though I had felt such a strong repugnance to his smoking in
said-- Clam or Cod?  What's that about Cods, ma'am?  said I, with much
sail for several days.  But no wonder; there was a good deal to be done, and
sail yet remained unseen by me; though, indeed, in many cases, a whale-ship
sail-makers who were mending a top-sail in the waist.  Now and then he
sail-needles are in the green locker!  Don't whale it too much a' Lord's days,
sailing in Nantucket ships at last come to be converted into the churches.
sailings in many hard gales, and always looking to windward; --for this
sailor, I should now take it into my head to go on a whaling voyage; this
sailor, right before the mast, plumb down into the forecastle, aloft there
sallied out for a stroll.
same mess with me, in short to share my every hap; with both my hands in
same time resolves to help a flight that paves its rear with gold.  Yet when
same truth, and do commercial homage to the whale-ship, that cleared the way
sang out, I could not help it now; and giving a sudden grunt of astonishment
sat steadfastly eyeing several marble tablets, with black borders, masoned
savage --this sea Prince of Wales, never saw the captain's cabin.  They put him
savage those old rules would not apply.  After supper, and another social chat
savage's side, as if it were a hatchet-faced baby.  A pretty pickle, truly,
savage, he never would have dreamt of getting under the bed to put them on.
saw a glimmer of light come into the room from under the door.  Lord save me,
saw a swinging sign over the door with a white painting upon it, faintly
saw seated on the transom when I followed Captain Peleg down into the cabin.
saw the traces of a simple honest heart; and in his large, deep eyes, fiery
say, I was thinking to myself, "what's his leg now, but a cane --a whalebone
say, because truly to enjoy bodily warmth, some small part of you must be
says I. Where is that harpooneer?  Is he here?  He'll be here afore long,
says I; and let's have a couple of smoked herring by way of variety.
scanning him, half-pretending meanwhile to be looking out at the storm from
schooner moored at the wharf.  As we were going along the people stared; not
science of Cetology is in the very vestibule attested by the fact, that in
scoured, bow in hand, the aboriginal forests of the main.  But no longer
scowl, Captain Peleg started me on the errand.  Going forward and glancing
screaming gull flew overhead; the two hulls wildly rolled; we gave three
scruples, to bear arms against land invaders, yet himself had illimitably
sea, and they began capering about most obstreperously.  I observed, however,
sea, explored this watery world; put an incessant belt of circumnavigations
sea-captains may order me about--however they may thump and punch me about, I
sea-officers and men, each in his own different way, could not readily be
sea-shells, still multitudinously murmuring of the ocean --Jonah did the
sea.  In a few minutes, however, he was missed by his shipmates, and being,
seaman's bag, containing the harpooneer's wardrobe, no doubt in lieu of a
seamen in the inn.  He made no advances whatever; appeared to have no desire
seamen, and heavily rolled up in blue pilot-cloth, cut in the Quaker style;
seamen.  No man prefers to sleep two in a bed.  In fact, you would a good deal
seasoned with pepper and salt.  Our appetites being sharpened by the frosty
secluded.  And, by and by, it came to pass, that he was almost continually in
second mate, came up from below, and with a certain unassured, deprecating
seducing nights.  But all the witcheries of that unwaning weather did not
see Father Mapple after gaining the height, slowly turn round, and stooping
see that leg? --I'll take that leg away from thy stern, if ever thou talkest
see this excellent hearted Quakeress coming on board, as she did the last
seeing me, glanced again inquiringly towards Peleg.  He says he's our man,
seeking to flee from Him.  He thinks that a ship made by men, will carry him
seem to concern him much, and very probably he had long since come to the
seemed absorbed in reading from a ponderous volume.  Bildad, cried Captain
seemed far too premature, a thing to be much distrusted; but in this simple
seemed haughty dames in jewelled velvets, nursing at home in lonely pride, the
seemed made up touching the character of his bedfellow, and he became, as it
seemed to be mightily tickled at something beyond my comprehension.  No, he
seemed to have authority; and who, it being noon, and the ship's work
seemed to me, I pronounced him in my heart, a humbug.
seeming ignominy, if thereby he might happily gain the power of enlightening
seeming to notice us.  This relieved me; and once more, and finally as it
seeming to see just how matters were, dived down and disappeared.  A few
seems they always give very long notice in these cases, and the ship did not
seldom or never goes abroad without it, therefore he must be inside here,
self-collectedness of simplicity seems a Socratic wisdom.  I had noticed also
self-containing stronghold --a lofty Ehrenbreitstein, with a perennial well
sending me to bed supperless, --my mother dragged me by the legs out of the
senior, an old Gay-Head Indian among the crew, superstitiously asserted that
sense of delicacy, say what you will; it is marvellous how essentially
sense of weight and pressure that I could tell that Queequeg was hugging me.
sent for, to the great quarter-deck on high, he was bid strike in with
serene household joy then.  I no more felt unduly concerned for the landlord's
service the soles of my boots were in a most miserable plight.  Too expensive
set of sea-dogs, many of whom without the slightest bashfulness had boarded
settle with myself at what terms I would be willing to engage for the voyage.
seven hundred vessels; manned by eighteen thousand men; yearly consuming 00824,000,000 of dollars; the ships worth, at the time of sailing, 20,000,000
seventy-seventh wouldn't be too much, would it? -- "where moth and rust do
several times, I never could master his liturgies and XXXIX Articles --leaving
shades lighter; you might say a touch of satin wood is in him.  In the
shadows; she's off by sunrise, I guess; come on!  Avast!  cried a voice,
shaggy jackets drawn about our shoulders, we now passed the Tomahawk from one
shall soon learn.  I've been several voyages in the merchant service, and I
sharks and shad, alewives and herring, against Linnaeus's express edict, were
she turned it in the lock; but, alas!  Queequeg's supplemental bolt remained
she would come on board with a jar of pickles for the steward's pantry;
shelf over the fire-place, and a tall harpoon standing at the head of the
shepherd's eye were fixed upon the magic stream before him.  Go visit the
ship aboard the same vessel, get into the same watch, the same boat, the
ship bound on so long and perilous a voyage --beyond both stormy Capes; a ship
ship of the old school, rather small if anything; with an old fashioned
ship that ever sailed round Cape Horn.  Captain Peleg, said Bildad
ship were now out of sight of land?  Why did the old Persians hold the sea
ship, the angel seemed to say, beat on, beat on, thou noble ship, and
ship.  People in Nantucket invest their money in whaling vessels, the same
shipmate (though but a sleeping-partner one, so far as this narrative is
shipmates, as if it were a thing not to be overlooked in this history,"that he
shipped, have ye?  Names down on the papers?  Well, well, what's signed, is
ships did not find their own harpoons.  To this, in substance, he replied,
ships lay silent and safely moored at last; while from others came a sound of
ships, barques, brigs, schooners, and what not.  And as for going as cook, --
shirt.  Get along with ye, said she to the man, or I'll be combing ye!
shivers ran over me.  Reality outran apprehension; Captain Ahab stood upon
shook himself all over like a Newfoundland dog just from the water, and sat
shore people were busy in bringing various last things on board.  Meanwhile
shore, eh?  Well, call all hands, then.  Muster 'em aft here --blast 'em!  No
short, to the obvious laws of Hygiene and common sense.  I told him, too, that
should be offered at least the 275th lay --that is, the 275th part of the clear
should see the comical things he does upon reaching the seaport.  In
shoulders, and then insinuating himself between us, stood stooping forward a
shrieks of the storm.  Each silent worshipper seemed purposely sitting apart
side hung a very large oil-painting so thoroughly besmoked, and every way
side stood a long, low, shelf-like table covered with cracked glass cases,
side-pocket, here's a key that'll fit, I guess; let's see.  And with that,
side; and then bracing his left knee, and poising his harpoon, cried out in
sign of The Trap!  Moving on, I at last came to a dim sort of light not far
signed; and what's to be, will be; and then again, perhaps it wont be, after
signing the articles, word was given at all the inns where the ship's company
signing, he turned to me and said, I guess Quohog there don't know how to
signs and sounds gave me to understand that, if it pleased me, he would
silence.  And not only that, but they looked embarrassed.  Yes, here were a
silenced me by pouring them into my trowsers' pockets.  I let them stay.  He
similar adventure.  And what is it, thought I, after all!  It's only his
since.  But I thought, may be, you had both gone off and locked your baggage
singular; yet, upon second thoughts, there was something almost sublime in
sinister one.  I could only see part of the foot-board of the bed and a line of
sink thee foundering down to the fiery pit, Captain Peleg.
sir, by trying to induce me to do so knowingly, would thereby render yourself
sister, had placed a small choice copy of Watts in each seaman's berth.
sit, and listen as you listen, while some one of you reads me that other
sitting up; the clothes well tucked around us, leaning against the
six-inch chapter is the stoneless grave of Bulkington.  Let me only say that
skrimshander.  I sought the landlord, and telling him I desired to be
slanting storm without seemed to add new power to the preacher, who, when
sleeper's head.  What's that for, Queequeg?  Perry easy, kill-e; oh!  perry
sleeping man, 'twas hard to choose between such winsome days and such
sleepy smoke.  Deep into distant woodlands winds a mazy way, reaching to
sleeves irregularly rolled up at various times --this same arm of his, I say,
slightest consideration will show that though seven hundred and seventy-seven
slightest variety that I could see.  Well, what's the report?  said Peleg
slope, to show forth in one array, contrasting climates, zone by zone.
sloped towards each other, and at the apex united in a tufted point, where
small clams will sometimes be found adhering, as to the backs of sea
smoking to windward all the while; to windward, and with such nervous
snapping into splinters.  Nothing was done, and nothing seemed capable of
snuffing in the trail of the wild beasts of the woodland, Tashtego now
so intense a Quaker.  What do ye think of him, Bildad?  said Peleg.  He'll
so long a voyage, without once laying my eyes on the man who was to be the
so many Alexanders; parcelling out among
so saying, he moved along the windlass, here and there using his leg very
so that there was little or nothing, out of himself, to employ or excite Ahab,
so turned out that we should sleep together, he must undress and get into bed
so, it would depend upon who the harpooneer might be, and that if he (the
sober cannibal than a drunken Christian.  Landlord, said I, tell him to
sociable and free and easy were we; when, at last, by reason of our
soft enough to suit me, and I did not know how all the planing in the world
solemnity of the scene, there was a wondering gaze of incredulous curiosity
some folks ashore call a conscience; it's a kind of Tic-Dolly-row they say
some looking over the bulwarks glasses!
some people go about with a camphorated handkerchief to their mouths; so,
some quarters it still remains a moot point whether a whale be a fish.  In his
some satisfactory conclusion concerning it.  I can compare it to nothing but a
some such way as this: -- Cap'ain, you see him small drop tar on water dere?
some time while employed in unlacing the bag's mouth.  This accomplished,
somehow.  It flashed like a bleached bone.  What the devil's the matter with
something like this: Grand Contested Election for the Presidency of the
something that completely fascinated my attention, and convinced me that he
something which there was no mistaking.  Two enormous wooden pots painted
something.  Come aboard, come aboard; never mind about the papers.  I say,
somewhere; he's talking about something and somebody we don't know.
son of a King, and Queequeg budged not.  Struck by his desperate
soon be initiated into certain facts hitherto pretty generally unknown, and
soon be moving among ye --a pleasant sun is all he needs, and ye'll have
soon, I guess; unless it's before the Grand Jury.  And with these cracked
soon, going to the table, took up a large book there, and placing it on his
soothes.  Oh, my pipe!  hard must it go with me if thy charm be gone!  Here
sooty, so that I thought this fire-place made a very appropriate little shrine
sorry I stopped ye.  Look here, friend, said I, if you have anything
sought a passage to Christian lands.  But the ship, having her full complement
soul, when we were directly attracted to the sleeping rigger.  The strong
sounded my pocket, and only brought up a few pieces of silver, --So,
space permitted, it might be distinctly shown how from those whalemen at last
spare boats, spare spars, and spare lines and harpoons, and spare everythings,
speak more respectfully, not to say reverentially, of a broiled fowl than I
speak out and tell me who and what this harpooneer is, and whether I shall be
speak?  It's I--Ishmael.  But all remained still as before.  I began to grow
speaking to, young man.  It belongs to me and Captain Bildad to see the
spectacles, he rubbed them with his great yellow bandana handkerchief, and
spell would be broken.  I knew not how this consciousness at last glided away
spent their wages in that place also, poor Queequeg gave it up for lost.
spiritual terrors, which sometimes menace you from the concentrating brow of
splice a rope, and all that, I made no doubt that from all I had heard I
spoil the hilarity of his shipmates by his own sober face, yet upon the whole
spoiling our harpooneer,
spoken of, a tall, new-landed mariner, encountered in New Bedford at the inn.
spot of radiance upon the ship's tossed deck, something like that silver
spraining his wrist, and I told him for heaven's sake to quit -- the bed was
spring, thou chap with the red whiskers; spring there, Scotchcap; spring,
spring, which, at sea, almost perpetually reigns on the threshold of the
sprouts, to welcome such glad-hearted visitants; so Ahab did, in the end, a
sprung up between me and Queequeg -- especially as Peter Coffin's cock and bull
squares; he seemed to have been in a Thirty Years' War, and just escaped from
squatting on his hams, and holding Yojo on top of his head.  He looked neither
standing at her helm but Bulkington!  I looked with sympathetic awe and
stands the vast arched bone of the whale's jaw, so wide, a coach might
starbuck, who is not afraid of a whale.  by this, he seemed to mean, not only
stark nonsense; bad for the health; useless for the soul; opposed, in
stash his tomahawk there, or pipe, or whatever you call it; tell him to
state, the sweetest of all oils?  Think of that, ye loyal Britons!  we
state-room ceiling almost resting on his forehead.  The air is close, and
steadfastly eyeing Queequeg, and at last rising solemnly and fumbling in the
steadily, thy conscience may be drawing ten inches of water, or ten fathoms,
stepmothers, and back I had to go to my room.  For several hours I lay there
stern?  Well, the best thing you can do, Flask, is to let that old man alone;
steward, tell me that of a morning he always finds the old man's hammock
stiffly up like the spines of the three old kings of Cologne.  Her ancient
stiggs done over again --there goes another counterpane --god pity his poor
still better seaward peep.  But these are all landsmen; of week days pent up
still found dividing the possession of the same seas with the Leviathan.  The
still grey and gloomy enough mornings of the transition, when with a fair wind
still intently eyeing him.  "No sooner, sir?" --"Soon enough for any honest man
still lighted pipe into the sea.  The fire hissed in the waves; the same
still more from the original ruggedness of his nature, and open him still
still shivering greenhorn.  Kill-e, cried Queequeg, twisting his tattooed
stock-companies and nations; knaves,
stood between me and the door, I would have bolted out of it quicker than ever
stood invitingly open.  It had a careless look, as if it were meant for the
stool on the weather side of the deck, he sat and smoked.  In old Norse times,
stooped to pick up a patch, or save an end of tarred twine, which otherwise
stop at this same New Bedford, thence to embark on their voyage, it may as
stop smoking, in short, and I will turn in with him.  But I don't fancy having
store; and meads and glades so eternally vernal, that the grass shot up by
stories about him had previously so much alarmed me concerning the very person
story of Narcissus, who because he could not grasp the tormenting, mild image
story, that when he sailed the old Categut whaleman, his crew, upon arriving
straight out before him, and by turns revealing his brawny shoulders through
straight out beyond the ship's ever-pitching prow.  There was an infinity of
straight, lofty trunk of a great tree, when the upper lightning
strain upon the main-sail had parted the weather-sheet, and the tremendous
strands in the mighty cable of the Scriptures.  Yet what depths of the soul
strange, thought I; but at any rate, since the harpoon stands yonder, and he
stranger entered the room, and without looking towards the bed, placed his
stranger would turn the same corner that we did.  He did; and then it seemed
straps in the first howling gale, when thou art driven, straps, buttons, and
street-stalls of the earth, picking up whatever random allusions to whales 
streets, -- but at seeing him and me upon such confidential terms.  But we
streets, and the sound of gay voices all over the house.  I felt worse and
strength, like a revivified Egyptian, this Starbuck seemed prepared to endure
strike his steel tags into him; as one who in that miserable plight still
strike the tent was well known to be the next thing to heaving up the anchor.
strike unsplinterable
striking a whale.  Of things not properly belonging to the room, there was a
striven to be Thine, more than to be this world's, or mine own.  Yet this is
stuff of which the wigwam was constructed.  There was nothing so very
stumped and paupered arm of old Cervantes; Thou who didst pick up Andrew
subsequent laborers.  As no better man advances to take this matter in hand,
succession, lighting one from the other to the end of the chapter; then
such a height would, by its long angle with the floor, seriously contract the
such offices to those who like them.  For my part, I abominate all honorable
such tones he commenced reading the following hymn; but changing his manner
sudden bodily rush dashed myself full against the mark.  With a prodigious
suddenly awakened fears, the swift punishment, repentance, prayers, and
suddenly clapping his hand on my shoulder, said -- Did ye see anything looking
sufficiently proclaimed him an inheritor of the unvitiated blood of those
suitable circumstances, would break out from its confinement, and burn all his
sunny cold, to driving sleet and mist.  Wrapping myself in my shaggy jacket
sunrise.  Soon the crew came on board in twos and threes; the riggers
sunset.  And that harpoon--so like a corkscrew now--was flung in Javan seas,
superfluousness.  But this, his thinness, so to speak, seemed no more the
supernatural hand in mine were very similar, in their strangeness, to those
supernaturally quiet after these orgies, I began to congratulate myself upon
superstitions of some of the earlier Puritans, and half believed this wild
superstitiousness, as has been said; the courage of this Starbuck which
sure that I did not.  Returning from my first morning stroll, I again sallied
sure there is more in that man than you perhaps think for.  The bar-room was
surmise, which might tell eloquently upon his cause --such an advocate, would
surprising figure.  It turned out to be Captain Bildad, who along with
surprising forecast of things; and cherished Yojo with considerable esteem,
suspended, was now enjoying respite from the burden of command.  He was seated
suspicions even from himself.  And much this way it was with me.  I said
suspicious, don't it, eh? --Hast not been a pirate, hast thou? --Didst not rob
swallow-tailed coat, girdled with a sailor-belt and sheath-knife.  Here comes
sweet, resigned girl.  Think of that; by that sweet girl that old man has a
swelled apart; he showed his filed and pointed teeth.  On, on we flew, and
swept overboard; all hands were in a panic; and to attempt snatching at the
swinging sign had a poverty-stricken sort of creak to it, I thought that here
table, and mechanically dividing them into two equal portions, pushed one of
tablets sympathetically caused the old wounds to bleed afresh.  Oh!  ye whose
tail, fanning into eddies the air over his head.  For what are the
tails.  His broad-brim was placed beside him; his legs were stiffly crossed;
take him fore and aft, he's about the queerest old man Stubb ever sailed
takes the harpoon from the bed corner, slips out the long wooden stock,
taking a long solitary walk on an empty stomach, in the negro heart of
taking my first daylight stroll through the streets of New Bedford.  In
tame merchant-ship companies which my previous experiences had made me
tanning a white man into a purplish yellow one.  However, I had never been
tanning his hands.  Now when a country dandy like this takes it into his head
tapping his stern in mid-somerset, the fellow landed with bursting lungs upon
task to catalogue all these things.  Let a handful suffice.  For many
task-master.  They told me in Nantucket, though it certainly seems a curious
tattered pea-jacket.  He was thrown at whole length upon two chests, his face
tauntings in Job might well appal me.  Will he (the leviathan) make a covenant
tawny brawn of his lithe snaky limbs, you would almost have credited the
tearingly darts down it, and without wrenching a single twig, peels and
teeth, and violently moving away, as if to avoid some passionate temptation.
tell Quohog there --what's that you call him?  tell Quohog to step along.  By
tell from what vile hole he had been coming?  Landlord!  I've changed my mind
tell me that that infernal harpooneer was a cannibal?  I thought ye know'd
tell you that they have to plant weeds there, they don't
tell, but his next movement was to crush himself --boots in hand, and hat on
telling pantomime of action, and not a tame chapter of sounds.  Yet, for all
telling.  Whether he ever thought of it at all, might be a question; but, if
tempest was upon them.  The lot is Jonah's; that discovered, then how
tempestuous Euroclydon.  Euroclydon!  says old Dives, in his red silken
tempestuous term.  The land seemed scorching to his feet.  Wonderfullest
temporary erection used in port.  It was of a conical shape, some ten feet
ten.  Well; when all the wedding guests were assembled at the bride's bamboo
than I did.  He looked at me with a sort of condescending concern and
that
that I am in the habit of going to sea whenever I begin to grow hazy about the
that I ever heard of.  On the contrary, passengers themselves must pay.  And
that I was in, I somehow seemed to be thinking to myself, that after all, it
that I would now fain put before you.  Yet is it no easy task.  The
that Lazarus should lie stranded there on the curbstone before the door of
that Queequeg never consorted at all, or but very little, with the other
that bloom of theirs, ye cannot, save in Salem, where they tell me the young
that craft, unless they previously produced their papers.  What do you mean
that for, I should like to know?  Who's made appointments with him in the hold?
that girl? --there, Betty, go to Snarles the Painter, and tell him to paint
that goes a passenger."  Ha!  Jonah, that's another stab.  But he swiftly calls
that had accompanied us began ranging alongside.  It was curious and not
that harpooneer is a dangerous man.  He pays reg'lar, was the rejoinder.
that he had been diligently consulting Yojo --the name of his black little god
that he was a Southerner, and from his fine stature, I thought he must be
that he was never very jolly; and I know that on the passage home, he was a
that his presence was by no means necessary in getting the ship under weigh,
that in this business of whaling, courage was one of the great staple outfits
that indignity amount to, weighed, I mean, in the scales of the New
that it was high time for the Captain to mind his own eye.  The prodigious
that joyful hour; I give the glory to my God, His all the mercy and the
that morning, he was every day visible to the crew; either standing in his
that no way of reaching that place would offer, till the following Monday.  As
that one of them held somewhat aloof, and though he seemed desirous not to
that pyramid?"  With that, he all of a sudden seemed somehow, in some queer
that ship's direst jeopardy; she must fly all hospitality; one touch of
that sort, he does not trouble himself much about his ship in port, but
that that's bloody on his mind.  But, mum; he comes this way.
that the most reliable and useful courage was that which arises from the fair
that this was a poor way to accumulate a princely fortune --and so it was, a
that though what I hinted was true enough, yet he had a particular affection
that too without delay.  I come to your house and want a bed; you tell me you
that way.  And the man that has anything bountifully laughable about him, be
that wicked king was slain, the dogs, did they not lick his blood?
that word careful precisely means when used by a man like Stubb, or almost
that yarn to me --I'm not green.  May be not, taking out a stick and
that!  Mind what I said about the marchant service --don't aggravate me --I
that, Sal said it wouldn't do.  Come along here, I'll give ye a glim in a
that, but moody stricken Ahab stood before them with a crucifixion in his
that, in the dog-days, will mow his two acres in buckskin gloves for fear of
that.  But, perhaps, to be true philosophers, we mortals should not be
that?  Queequeg thought he knew what he was about, I suppose; he seemed to be
the Acushnet river.  On
the Captain, "there's thy room."  Jonah enters, and would lock the door,
the Green Mountains.  A curious sight; these bashful bears, these timid
the Greenland or right-whale, he is the best existing authority.  But Scoresby
the Greenland whale is almost unworthy mentioning.  And here be it said, that
the Greenland whale is an usurper upon the throne of the seas.  He is not even
the Indies, his live blood would not spoil like bottled
the Moluccas.  Yet Dives himself, he too lives like a Czar in an ice palace
the New England coast, and carried off an infant Indian in his talons.  With
the Off-shore Ground in the Pacific, December 31st,
the Pequod's boats as headsmen.  In that grand order of battle in which
the Pequod, Isolatoes too, I call such, not acknowledging the common
the Pequod; and Captain Ahab; and the leg he had lost; and the Cape Horn
the Pequod?  Aye, among some of us old sailor chaps, he goes by that name.
the Priest, and noting the ceremony, and thinking himself --being Captain of
the Red-Men, first sally out in canoes to give chase to the Leviathan?  And
the Vineyard; he joined the meeting, and never came to good.  He got so
the affrighted ladies.  Regent street is not unknown to Lascars and Malays;
the after hold for, every night, as Dough-Boy tells me he suspects; what's
the air; but, as yet, for all that he said, or perceptibly did, on the at
the axe and snatch the whale-lance.  Many are as green as the Green Mountains
the bar-room accosted the grinning landlord very pleasantly.  I cherished no
the barrow from my hand to his, he told me a funny story about the first
the battery, where that noble mole is washed by waves, and cooled by
the bed the night before, yet see how elastic our stiff prejudices grow when
the bed, but he had disappeared.  Folding back the counterpane, I stooped
the bed-side, I got up and took off my monkey jacket, and then stood in the
the behavior of poor Jonah.  The eager mariners but ask him who he is, and
the benediction some time.  He was sitting on a bench before the fire, with
the best of it; and when the sailors find him not to be the man that is
the boarders, seemed amazingly tickled at the sudden friendship which had
the bottom of the sea.  This ended, in prolonged solemn tones, like the
the bottom of which was formed of a stout interlacing of the same elastic
the bottomless deeps, could he find the torn limbs of his brother?  With
the bowl before the blessed beverage circulates.  Seeing himself placed next
the business of whaling is not accounted on a level with what are called the
the casement, he never heeded my presence, never troubled himself with so
the cold and dark; this made me really wretched.  Think of it; sleeping all
the compasses of all those ships attract them thither?  Once more.  Say, you
the congregation, sufficiently attested that this fine old man was the
the crew, were a far more barbaric, heathenish, and motley set than any of the
the deep shadows of his eyes floated some reminiscences that did not seem to
the ducks, glance upwards to the great Giver of all feasts --Grace, I say,
the embalmed head to a barber, for a block, I settled my own and comrade's
the entry a little, for a good start, when the landlady caught at me, again
the far rush of the mighty whale, which even now with open mouth is cleaving
the flood-tide, was now obliquely pointing towards the open ocean.  The
the flood; most monstrous and most mountainous!  That Himmalehan, salt-sea
the freezing foam.  I looked at the grand and glorious fellow, but saw no one
the fright.  "What am I about?" says I at last.  "And what business is that of
the frightened master comes to him, and shrieks in his dead ear, "What
the frost is on both sides, and of which the wight Death is the only
the goods, to mark the stranger's evil eye.  Jonah sees this; but in vain he
the great anchor, what a harpoon he's got there!  looks like good stuff that;
the green seas, and sent the shivering frost all over her, and the winds
the hand, and holding up a lantern, for a moment stood gazing heroically in
the harpooneer is a dark complexioned chap.  He never eats dumplings, he
the head of the table, too, it so chanced; as cool as an icicle.  To be sure
the idol up very unceremoniously, and bagged it again in his grego pocket
the inmates of the place one lodges in.  By reason of these things, then, the
the inn, under a dull red lamp swinging there, that looked much like an
the invisible police officer of the Fates, who has the constant surveillance
the island --and in childhood naturally imbibing the stately dramatic thee and
the island; that is, dipping his consecrated and consecrating fingers into
the jealous policy of the Spanish crown, touching those colonies; and, if
the kelpy bottom of the waters; sea-weed and all the slime of the sea is
the kitchen served to belie the apparently cheerless prospect before us.  But
the lamp more and
the landless gull, that at sunset folds her wings and is rocked to sleep
the lashed sea's landlessness again; for refuge's sake forlornly rushing into
the leaves of the Bible, and at last, folding his hand down upon the proper
the leeward land.  The port would fain give succor; the port is pitiful; in
the lifetime of his God?  He said no more, but slowly waving a benediction,
the light, that I plainly saw they could not be sticking-plasters at all,
the living God.  How being an anointed pilot-prophet, or speaker of true
the loose hairy fibres waved to and fro like a top-knot on some old
the marchant service?  he roared.  Spring, thou sheep-head; spring, and
the measure of the bench, and found that it was a foot too short; but that
the mentioning; so, after a fine run, we safely arrived in Nantucket.
the middle and highest part of the jaws of the right-whale.  Planted with their
the missing murderers from Sodom."  Another runs to read the bill that's stuck
the most part the Commodore on the quarter-deck gets his atmosphere at second
the most sanguinary of all sailors and whale-hunters.  They are fighting
the muscles.  No small number of these whaling seamen belong to the Azores,
the name would somehow prove prophetic.  And, perhaps, other fools like her
the neck.  I sat down on the side of the bed, and commenced thinking about
the ninetieth lay, and that's more than ever was given a harpooneer yet out of
the now sacred retreat of the cabin.  Every time I ascended to the deck from my
the open air, that truly speaking, his visits were more to the cabin, than
the opening maw of hell, With endless pains and sorrows there; Which none but
the opinion of learned men.  And where is Cadiz, shipmates?  Cadiz is in
the other.  Nor was Bildad himself nor Captain Peleg at all backward.  As for
the outside, or whether thou observest it from that sashless window, where
the papered fire-board, sets up this little hunchbacked image, like a tenpin,
the passer-by their tapering upright cones of congregated blossoms.  So
the people laugh?  Upon this, he told me another story.  The people of his
the picture lies thus tranced, and though this pine-tree shakes down its sighs
the port is safety, comfort, hearthstone, supper, warm blankets, friends,
the present dark Ahab slipped my mind.
the present day not one in two of the many thousand men before the mast
the present, ushered us into a little room, and seating us at a table spread
the pulpit's bows, folded his large brown hands across his chest, uplifted his
the red-men.  Thus goes the legend.  In olden times an eagle swooped down upon
the rest into the public room, lighted his tomahawk-pipe, and was sitting
the rest of his toilet was soon achieved, and he proudly marched out of the
the revelry of his companions had mounted to its height, this man slipped
the sailors did there; and then going on to Nantucket, and seeing how they
the salt sea yet lingered in old Bildad's language, heterogeneously mixed with
the same calling, all of kindred tastes --looking round as sheepishly at
the same squares as his face; his back, too, was all over the same dark
the seas after him.  Aye, shipmates, Jonah was gone down into the sides of
the seclusion of the sea, became almost a perturbation.  This was strangely
the second mate's squire.  Third among the harpooneers was Daggoo, a gigantic,
the segment made in the new-mown grass by a long-armed mower.  You shuddered
the ship --a berth in the cabin as I have taken it, and was fast asleep.  But
the ship was rushing through the water with a vindictive sort of leaping and
the ship's decks, and struck the glistening tar spot out of sight.  Now,
the ship, so that the insider commanded a complete view forward.  And half
the side with a long living arc of a leap.  For three
the sign of The Crossed Harpoons --but it looked too expensive and jolly
the sin of this son of Amittai was in his wilful disobedience of the command
the singular posture he maintained.  Upon each side of the Pequod's quarter
the son fitly replacing the infallible arrow of the sires.  To look at the
the spring, untrodden, unwilted, remains at midsummer.  At last we gained such
the street, and hear the sounds of the tinkling glasses within.  But go on,
the sun shining in at the window, and a great rattling of coaches in the
the thought of sleeping with him.  It was fair to presume that being a
the three hundredth, said Peleg, do ye hear that, Bildad!  The three
the thrones of the sea-loving Danish kings were fabricated, saith tradition,
the time, but I could not help staring at this gallows with a vague
the trappings of some unceasing grief, that I feel sure that here before me
the twenty-four; and he don't sleep then.  Didn't that Dough-Boy, the
the two, a close intimacy and friendliness; it is therefore but meet, that in
the veriest of all trifles --Captain Bildad
the victor's compliments to all his friends, just as though these presents
the voyage.  If I had been downright honest with myself, I would have seen
the wall, but nothing more.  I was surprised to behold resting against the
the wash-stand centre-table, dipped it into water and commenced lathering his
the water it had absorbed.  However, hat and coat and overshoes were one by
the waves of the billows of the seas of the boisterous mob can never shake
the waves; fixed his fiery lance in mightier stranger foes than whales.  His
the week, that quarter of the town proved all but deserted.  But presently I
the whale, the great Cuvier, and John Hunter, and Lesson, those lights of
the whole management of the ship's affairs to these two.  And I did not know
the window, and both together formed a series of small whirlwinds in the
the world for a man to look as if he had a great secret in him.  Morning to
the world.  Want to see what whaling is, eh?  Have ye clapped eye on
their adieux.  At last, after much dodging search, he finds the Tarshish ship
their cheeks is perennial as sunlight in the seventh heavens.  Elsewhere match
their clothes, and tried to talk their gibberish.  Hence the queer ways about
their daughters, and portion off their nieces with a few porpoises a-piece.
their functions is gone through.  There is a saltcellar of state, so called,
their gamesome but still serious way, one whispers to the other --"Jack, he's
their hands upon him.  Frighted Jonah trembles, and summoning all his
their huge bake-houses the pyramids.  No, when I go to sea, I go as a simple
their long keen whaling spears, they were as a picked trio of lancers; even
their own scythes --though in no wise obliged to furnished them -- even so,
their slumbering shipmates; when this sort of steady quietude would begin to
them again, showed a deep joy in his eyes, as he cried out with a heavenly
them of men, who, named with Scripture names --a singularly common fashion on
them the Atlantic, Pacific, and Indian oceans, as the three pirate powers did
them the monarch of the seas.  But the time has at last come for a new
them the way, and first interpreted between them and the savages.  They may
them towards me, and said it was mine.  I was going to remonstrate; but he
themselves are poor devils; they have no good blood in their veins.  No good
themselves on deck for a considerable time after heaving up the anchor, but
then back to me and tell me what ye see there.  For a moment I stood a little
then begin again at the next fifty; seeming to commence at number one each
then can it possibly be, but sperm oil in its unmanufactured, unpolluted
then it came upon him, not in the fury of any mortal fray, but in an
then revolved over once or twice; then sat up and rubbed his eyes.  Holloa!
then went about his evening prayers, took out his idol, and removed the
then, just step forward there, and take a peep over the weather-bow, and
then, no one could say nay; but there might be some way of muffling the
then, shipmates, that Jonah sought to flee world-wide from God?  Miserable
then, that these Nantucketers, born on a beach, should take to the sea for a
then.  But be easy, be easy, this here harpooneer I have been tellin' you of
then; but how hard he breathes, he's heaving himself; get off, Queequeg,
there
there about your souls?  About what?  Oh, perhaps you hav'n't got any, he
there all day and half the night on his hams in a cold room, holding a piece
there floated into my inmost soul, endless processions of the whale, and, mid
there is all the difference in the world between paying and being paid.  The
there is no one who will
there open the very bottom of their souls to each other; and some old couples
there plant toadstools before their houses, to get under the shade in summer
there quietly digesting and smoking with his inseparable hat on, when I
there yet lurked any ice of indifference towards me in the Pagan's breast,
there's one about a mile from here.  But avast!  putting her hand in her
there's something on his mind, as sure as there must be something on a deck
there, I mean Quohog, in one of our boats.  Look ye, Quohog, we'll give ye
there, chattering his teeth against the curbstone for his pillow, and shaking
there, frozen with the most awful fears, not daring to drag away my hand;
there, tell 'em I've concluded not to make one of 'em.  Ah, my dear fellow,
there, the Pequod, then let me tell you, that I know all about the loss of
there.  Further on, from the bright red windows of the Sword-Fish Inn, there
there.  Ha, Ishmael, muttered I, backing out, Wretched entertainment at the
there?" cries the Captain at his busy desk, hurriedly making out his papers
therefore the other and more inconsiderable and scattered owners, left nearly
therefore three cheers for Nantucket; and come a stove boat and stove body
therefore, was not reading those frigid inscriptions on the wall.  Whether any
these three headsmen were as captains of companies.  Or, being armed with
these were rusty old whaling lances and harpoons all broken and deformed.
they said --therefore, Captain Ahab stayed below.  And all this seemed natural
they said; but somehow he got an inordinate quantity of cruel, unmitigated
they say, and I suppose this Peter here is an emigrant from there.  As the
they seemed to be the only commanders of the ship; only they sometimes issued
they tell no tales, though containing more secrets than the Goodwin Sands;
they that feel can tell-- Oh, I was plunging to despair.  In black distress,
they waded out with nets for mackerel; more experienced, they pushed off in
they were.  But, alas!  the practices of whalemen soon convinced him that even
thick in a hard, asphaltic pavement, --rather weary for me, when I struck my
thieves entailed upon us.  But being paid, --what will compare with it?  The
things altogether alien and heterogeneous.  For some of these same Quakers are
things are ever the unmentionable; deep memories yield no epitaphs; this
things should fail in latently engendering an element in him, which, under
things, and bidden by the Lord to sound those unwelcome truths in the ears of
things, including my own poor carpet-bag, and Queequeg's canvas sack and
things, made Stubb such an easygoing, unfearing man, so cheerily trudging off
things.  I was resolved to satisfy myself whether this ragged Elijah was
think that-- Merchant service be damned.  Talk not that lingo to me.  Dost
think.  Well, what dost thou think then of seeing the world?  Do ye wish to
thinking of shipping.  Thou wast, wast thou?  I see thou are no Nantucketer
thinks I, that must be the harpooneer, the infernal head-peddler.  But I lay
thinks I. A Coffin my Innkeeper upon landing in my first whaling port;
this blessed Saturday night, or rather Sunday morning, in peddling his head
this book, containing only four chapters --four yarns --is one of the smallest
this day its inhabitants in general retain in an uncommon measure the
this frigid
this head-peddling harpooneer, and his door mat.  After thinking some time on
this in not only a civil but a really kind and charitable way.  I stood
this is full of meaning.  Now Jonah's Captain, shipmates, was one whose
this narrow scuttle, to go to my grave-dug berth.  So, almost every
this place we set down who the Pequod's harpooneers were, and to what
this plaguey juggling thinks over by day-light.
this pleasant, genial smoke we had, soon thawed it out, and left us cronies.
this punchbowl always forms the great central ornament on the braided mat
this raging tumult, Jonah sleeps his hideous sleep.  He sees no black sky and
this ridiculous Ramadan of his.  Besides, argued I, fasting makes the body
this sin of disobedience in him, Jonah still further flouts at God, by
this sort of deliciousness is to have nothing but the blanket between you and
this sort of thing is unpleasant enough.  It touches one's sense of honor,
this wild cannibal, tomahawk between his teeth, sprang into bed with me.  I
this wild idolator in worshipping his piece of wood?  But what is worship?
this, nowhere in all America will you find more patrician-like houses; parks
this, you still declare that whaling has no aesthetically noble associations
this.  I had been cutting up some caper or other --I think it was trying to
this: -- Quohog his mark.  Meanwhile Captain Bildad sat earnestly and
thoroughfares nigh the docks, any considerable seaport will frequently offer
those ancient days, when the Atlantic was an almost unknown sea.  Because
those black squares on his cheeks.  they were stains of some sort or other.  At
those days, jonah, on the mere suspicion of something wrong, had been arrested
those other creatures in certain parts of our earth, who with a degree of
those who did this fetching and carrying was Captain Bildad's sister, a lean
thou gettest to sea?  I protested my innocence of these things.  I saw that
thou green pants.  Spring, I say, all of ye, and spring your eyes out!  And
thou of the Quaker idiom; still, from the audacious, daring, and boundless
thou went mate with Captain Ahab, did'st thou not think of Death and the
though I confess there is considerable glory in that, a cook being a sort of
though I tried to move his arm --unlock his bridegroom clasp --yet, sleeping
though a baked brick had been on it?  A hot old man!  I guess he's got what
though by no law of propriety that I ever heard of, is any man required to be
though he was, and hideously marred about the face --at least to my taste --
though mostly confined to scientific description.  As yet, however, the sperm
though the 275th lay was what they call a rather long lay, yet it was
thought I. Do you suppose now, Ishmael, that the magnanimous God of heaven
thought I; abed here in a strange house in the broad day, with a cannibal and
thought Starbuck, I am here in this critical ocean to kill whales for my
thought i to myself --the man's a human being just as I am: he has just as
thought, fancied, and sung of Leviathan, by many nations and generations,
three barrels of ile, was found dead in my first floor back, with his
three chief officers of the ship, the mates, which was most forcibly
three days landed from his Indian voyage.  That man next him looks a few
three mast-heads.  The opposite wall of this entry was hung all over with a
thrice; kissed his nose; and that done, we undressed and went to bed, at
throne of thirty pagan Kings before him.  But by and by, he said, he would
through life.  A staid, steadfast man, whose life for the most part was a
through.  With all her might she crowds all sail off shore; in so doing,
throwing open the little window towards the back of the entry, you at last
thunder him higher than a throne!  Thou who, in all Thy mighty, earthly
thundering against the side; and every sea breaking over us, fore and aft.
tidiest, certainly none of the finest.  I began to twitch all over.  Besides,
till it disappeared in his clothing, you saw a slender rod-like mark, lividly
till poor Queequeg took his last long dive.  Was there ever such
till you could clutch something --a hammer or a marling-spike, and go to work
tiller was in one mass, curiously carved from the long narrow lower jaw of her
time I ever did pray.  It's queer; very queer; and he's queer too; aye,
time eluded him.  Alarmed at this terrible outburst between the two principal
time for an uninterrupted look at him.  Aye, the Pequod --that ship there, he
time, as though he could not count more than fifty, and it was only by such
time; that one blade of grass makes an oasis, three blades in a day's walk a
times these things bent the welded iron of his soul, much more did his
to English South-Sea whale-ships, and both exact and reliable men.  The
to a distant strait, which he knew the ship must pass through when she quitted
to accidents of all kinds, and especially to the destruction and loss of the
to address him, and demand a satisfactory answer concerning what seemed
to be saved.  The greenhorn had gone down.  Shooting himself perpendicularly
to be seen, and nothing was to be heard; but a supernatural hand seemed
to beget in me an uncomfortable feeling towards the man whom
to charm him from his mood.  For, as when the red-cheeked, dancing girls,
to churches.  He wanted to, last Sunday, but I stopped him just as he was
to do --remember that --and hence, he oftener commands us than endeavors to
to enlarge the circle of his acquaintances.  All this struck me as mighty
to explain the mystery.  Nay, to this very hour, I often puzzle myself with
to explain to him the purpose of the printing, and the meaning of the few
to expose the fall of valor in the soul.  Men may seem detestable as joint
to feel myself mysteriously drawn towards him.  And those same things that
to have not the slightest intention of withdrawing.  He seemed quite used to
to his canvas trowsers.  Ah, poor Hay-Seed!  how bitterly will burst those
to interest me on shore, I thought I would sail about a little and see the
to just beyond the head of the sleeper, and lighted his tomahawk pipe.  I sat
to kill time, and with a bitter sigh got between the sheets.  I lay there
to let it go, though hacked in pieces.  In vain the captain threatened to throw
to lodge for the night, my dear Ishmael, be sure to inquire the price, and
to look out upon the sea.  But at that moment he is sprung upon by a panther
to make a distinguished reputation, and joins the great whale-fishery, you
to me that he was dogging us, but with what intent I could not for the life
to me with his tomahawk, and throwing the clothes to one side.  He really did
to one side of her nose, she ruminated for an instant; then exclaimed -- No!  I
to one, who, like me, was wholly ignorant of the mysteries of whaling, though
to pile themselves upon.  Nevertheless, ere long, the warm, warbling
to sail out of Nantucket, as being the most promising port for an adventurous
to settle down in.  But I soon found that there came such a draught of cold
to ship me.  And thou mayest as well sign the papers right off, he added
to smile at the solemn whimsicalities of that outlandish prophet of the
to stash it; so here goes to hammock again; and in the morning, I'll see how
to the other, till slowly there grew over us a blue hanging tester of smoke,
to the royal mast-head.  True, they rather order me about some, and make me
to the westward from that, just outside the Straits of Gibraltar.  See ye not
to them to take him and cast him forth into the sea, for he knew that for
to throw their costliest robes.  That immaculate manliness we feel within
to view the queerest looking nondescripts from foreign parts.  Even in
to windward; looked towards the wide and endless waters, only bounded by the
to ye!  he rejoined, again moving off.  Oh!  I was going to warn ye against
to.  And so saying he went on deck, and we followed.  It was now clear
tobacco, drew out some thirty dollars in silver; then spreading them on the
together the night previous, and especially considering the affectionate arm
token of wasting anxieties and cares, than it seemed the indication of any
told you that I had been four voyages in the merchant-- Hard down out of
tolerably well.  I then glanced round the room; and besides the bedstead and
tomahawk from the table, he examined the head of it for an instant, and then
tomahawk scattered the hot tobacco ashes about me till I thought
tomahawk!  But there was no time for shuddering, for now the savage went about
tombs, and even from these dead doubts she gathers her most vital hope.  It
tombstones staring at me in the whalemen's chapel; and here a gallows!  and a
too, that ever since he lost his leg last voyage by that accursed whale, he's
too, that his head being shaved, his forehead was drawn out in freer and
top of that!  He might as well have kicked me, and done with it.  Maybe he
top-mast, planted in front of an old doorway.  The horns of the cross-trees
torrid sun, like a patent chronometer, his interior vitality was warranted to
tossed craft.  Euroclydon, nevertheless, is a mighty pleasant zephyr to any
touch that workman's arm with some ethereal light; if I shall spread a
touching tophet?  I was called from these reflections by the sight of a
towards him said, Captain Peleg, thou hast a generous heart; but thou must
towards night-fall; for I cherish the greatest respect towards everybody's
towards the concluding stanzas, burst forth with a pealing exultation and joy
towards the land of Nod, when I heard a heavy footfall in the passage, and
towards the ship, Queequeg carrying his harpoon, Captain Peleg in his gruff
trace of the same sea-taste that had achieved the ladder and the picture.  Its
tract of land would this day perhaps have been in as howling condition as the
transition is a keen one, I assure you, from the schoolmaster to a sailor,
travelled full forty feet, and at last was found imbedded in the hump.
treacherous world has gone down beneath him.  Delight is to him, who gives
treasure is, there will your heart be also.  I am going to put him down for
treated me with so much civility and consideration, while I was guilty of
tribe of Massachusetts Indians, now extinct as the ancient Medes.  I peered
tricking herself forth in the chased bones of her enemies.  All round, her
tries to look all ease and confidence; in vain essays his wretched smile.
trifling little affair.  Next morning early, leaving Queequeg shut up with
tripod of bones, without bethinking him of the royalty it symbolized?  For a
trouble in order to kill and boil.  This ignorant, unconscious fearlessness of
troubled himself with boots at all; but then, if he had not been still a
troubled nightmare of a doze; and slowly waking from it --half steeped in
true I take to be good evidence that this harpooneer is stark mad, and I've
true substance.  Methinks that in looking at things spiritual, we are too much
try this experiment, if your caravan happen to be supplied with a metaphysical
tumble aloft, and bestir themselves there, about something which he would find
tumbled into bed, and commended myself to the care of heaven.  Whether that
turning sideways was surprised to see Queequeg near me.  Affected by the
turns and turns in giddy anguish, praying God for annihilation until the fit
turnstile wheel at her reverend helm, she sported there a tiller; and that
turtles.  But these extravaganzas only show that Nantucket is no Illinois.
twelve o'clock.  The landlord chuckled again with his lean chuckle, and
twenty years as a substitute for blotting paper.  Some gamesome wights will
twenty-four hours, when the watches of the night were set, and the band on
two thirds of this terraqueous globe are the Nantucketer's.  For the sea is
ultimate generalizing purpose all these have written, the above cited extracts
unaccountable Ramadan!  But somehow I dropped off at last, and knew nothing
unassuming authority ordered the scattered people to condense.  Starboard
unbecomingness of his hugging a fellow male in that matrimonial sort of style,
unbidden infidelities in the lines that seem to gnaw upon all Faith, and
unclad, lovely island creatures, round the Horn --all that had not moved this
uncommonly shaggy and thick, and I thought a little damp, as though this
unconsciousness?  He did not seem to think that he at all deserved a medal
undeliverable, nameless perils of the whale; these, with all the attending
under the mask of these half humorous inuendoes, this old seaman, as an
undulating tester rolled the savage away to far distant scenes, I know not,
unendurable length of time.  But she was the best and most conscientious of
unfort'nt v'y'ge of his, when he was gone four years and a half, with only
ungraspable phantom of life; and this is the key to it all.  Now, when I say
unheeded reel about the streets, you will see other sights still more
unilluminated twelve-o'clock-at-night, I experienced a disagreeable
unimaginable sublimity about it that fairly froze you to it, till you
unimaginable, silent form or phantom, to which the hand belonged, seemed
unpanelled, open bulwarks were garnished like one continuous jaw, with the
unpitying lance coolly and off-handedly, as a whistling tinker his hammer.
unpleasing, how Peleg and Bildad were affected at this juncture, especially
unsheathes the head, whets it a little on his boot, and striding up to the
unstirring paralysis, and deadly, hopeless trance, yet lies antique Adam who
untutored youth.  A Sag Harbor ship visited his father's bay, and Queequeg
unwithdrawn within.  Have to burst it open, said I, and was running down
unwittingly pay us the profoundest homage; yea, an all-abounding adoration!
up after me, she caught me as I was again trying to force open the door.  I
up in bed, stiff as a pike-staff, looking at me, and rubbing his eyes as if
up into little flakes; the whole enriched with butter, and plentifully
upon him.  Those sailors we saw, Queequeg, where can they have gone to?
upon learning that the little packet for Nantucket had already sailed, and
upon one of those fast days for which his state is famous.  Only some thirty
upon the soul, especially when the still mild hours of eve came on; then,
upon the whole broad world, taken in one aggregate, than the high and mighty
upon the whole, a man might rather have done than to have left undone; if, at
upon this once scraggy scoria of a country?  Go and gaze upon the iron
upon us silent, solitary twain; the storm booming without in solemn swells;
upon which Jonah mixed him a pitch-like potion of gin and molasses, which
upper hand of me, that it requires a strong moral principle to prevent me
upwards of eight or ten hours, going too without his regular meals.  Mrs.
urbane activity with which a man receives money is really marvellous,
us twain.  I now strove to rouse him --
us, you are mistaken in your game; that's all I have to say.  And it's said
used to be good at sharpening a lance, mend that pen, will ye.  My jack-knife
uses of the public; so, entering, the first thing I did was to stumble over
ushered into a small room, cold as a clam, and furnished, sure enough, with a
using it there without ceremony; reaching over the table with it, to the
vapor now completely filling the contracted hole, it began to tell upon him.
various species, or-- in this place at least --to much of any description.  My
vastly superior to other mortals, pagans and what not, because of their
venerable bows looked bearded.  Her masts--cut somewhere on the coast of Japan,
very civilized overture; but, the truth is, these savages have an innate
very large; but considering that I was used to the sea, could steer a ship,
very panics are more to be dreaded than his most fearless and malicious
very plainly in my heart that I did but half fancy being committed this way to
very point of starting for the voyage, Captain Peleg and Captain Bildad were
very poor way indeed.  But I am one of those that never take on about princely
very projecting, like two long promontories thickly wooded on top.  Queequeg
very slip-shod, I assure ye.  Supper concluded, we received a lamp, and
very strange.  But savages are strange beings; at times you do not know
very things upon which the success of the voyage most depends.  Hence, the
very well, and I like to hear a chap talk up that way; you are just the man
vexed with him; it seemed so downright senseless and insane to be sitting
view into the room, and observing more and more the indecorous figure that
vinegar-cruet
visible hands; I am in earnest; and I will try.  There are some
visible in some intrepid men, which, while generally abiding firm in the
visible; for my first vague disquietude touching the unknown captain, now in
vocation amounts to a butchering sort of business; and that when actively
voice loudly hailed us from his wigwam, saying he had not suspected my friend
voluntary and confiding breast, and thereby chiefly, but with some help from
vowing I should not break down her premises; but I tore from her, and with a
voyage, I regarded those marble tablets, and by the murky light of that
voyage, and in particular, Queequeg seeing his favorite fishing food before
voyage, formed part of the grand programme of Providence that was drawn up a
voyages are so prolonged, and the shore intervals at home so exceedingly
wad me that fashion?  But go thy ways; I had forgot.  Below to thy nightly
wainscots, reminding one of the bulwarks of some condemned old craft.  On one
wait a bit, Skrimshander; I've
wall the wooden shaft of Queequeg's harpoon, which the landlady the evening
want?  groaned Bildad, glancing up from the book in which he had again been
wantest to know what whaling is, as thou tellest ye do, I can put ye in a way
warm his blue hands by holding them up to the grand northern lights?  Would
warm spark in the heart of an arctic crystal.  We had been sitting in this
warrior whalemen!  But as for Queequeg --why, Queequeg sat there among them --at
was Elijah.  Going aboard?  Hands off, will you, said I. Lookee here,
was George Washington cannibalistically developed.  Whilst I was thus closely
was Tashtego, an unmixed Indian from Gay Head, the most westerly promontory of
was a Quaker, the island having been originally settled by that sect; and to
was a cannibal, and furthermore announcing that he let no cannibals on board
was a native of Cape Cod; and hence, according to local usage, was called a
was a reality or a dream, I never could entirely settle.  The circumstance was
was a sort of point of honor with him, to destroy them whenever encountered.
was a very dubious-looking, nay, a very dark and dismal night, bitingly cold
was all eagerness to vanish from before the awakened wrath of Peleg.  But to
was carried on between Europe and the long line of the opulent Spanish
was deposited within, leaving him impregnable in his little Quebec.  I
was jonah.  but the sea rebels; he will not bear the wicked burden.  A
was locked; and not a mouse to be heard; and it's been just so silent ever
was no telling how soon the vessel might be sailing.  So Queequeg and I got
was no yoking them.  I then placed the first bench lengthwise along the only
was not at all limber, and that it glistened a good deal like polished ebony,
was not in reasonable nature that a man so organized, and with such terrible
was not much of an insult, that kick from ahab.  "Why," thinks I,"what's the
was now quite plain that he must be some abominable savage or other shipped
was of a dark purplish, yellow color, here and there stuck over with large,
was on him too deep for common regardings; and as with heavy, lumber-like
was put out, to break the spell into which I had so long been bound.  But the
was safe.  The schooner was run into the wind, and while the hands were
was soon enrolled among the same ship's company to which I myself belonged.
was stranded.  Where else but from Nantucket did those aboriginal whalemen,
was the answer.  I could not help it, but I began to feel suspicious of this
was the very spot for cheap lodgings, and the best of pea coffee.  It was a
was there, though hitherto unseen by any eyes not permitted to penetrate into
was thinking of.  Bildad said no more, but buttoning up his coat, stalked on
was to be found.  And what dost thou want of Captain Ahab?  It's all right
was unmethodically rushing up stairs again empty-handed, when Mrs. Hussey
was up, the sails were set, and off we glided.  It was a short, cold
was young Nat Swaine, once the bravest boat-header out of all Nantucket and
was, and mind ye, if-- Come, come, Captain Bildad; stop palavering, --away!
watch, so soon as I levelled my glance towards the taffrail, foreboding
watches below, I instantly gazed aft to mark if any strange face were
water -- something to wipe the brine off; that done, he put on dry clothes,
water of young cocoanuts into a large stained calabash like a punchbowl; and
water the thinnest of air.  Methinks my body is but the lees of my better
water, for the moment each occupied with his own thoughts, when the above
water-line, Jonah feels the heralding presentiment of that stifling hour, when
water; considerable horizon though, and there's a squall coming up, I
waters when God has brewed them into a gale!  Woe to him who seeks to please
waters.  They resolved to follow in the same direction.  Setting out in their
watery part of the world.  It is a way I have of driving off the spleen, and
way in which to manage the barrow --Queequeg puts his chest upon it; lashes
way that you do yours in approved state stocks bringing in good interest.
we are, said I, but what business is that of yours?  Do you know, Mr.
wedding feast of Queequeg's sister, a pretty young princess just turned of
well acquainted with the sea, as known to merchant seamen.  His story being
well be related that I, for one, had no idea of so doing.  For my mind was
well listen.  Mark ye, be forewarned; Ahab's above the common; Ahab's been
well to have a look at him before irrevocably committing yourself into his
well, then, let him rest; he'll get up sooner or later, no doubt.  It can't
well-earned income.  Now Bildad, I am sorry to say, had the reputation of
went to jabbering the best we could about the various outer sights to be seen
were assembled those, in whose unhealing hearts the sight of those bleak
were best to strike a light, seeing that we were so wide awake; and besides
were sawed off on the other side, so that this old top-mast looked not a
were so many Christmas turkeys.  After all, I do not think that my remarks
were stopping, that their chests must be on board before night, for there
were three ships up for three-years' voyages --The Devil-Dam the Tit-bit,
were well worth unusual regarding.  He commenced dressing at top by donning his
were working till long after night-fall.  On the day following Queequeg's
were wrapped about his head," and all the watery world of woe bowled over
were, reconciled to the fact; he jumped out upon the floor, and by certain
whale statements, however authentic, in these extracts, for veritable gospel
whale, scientific or poetic, lives not complete in any literature.  Far above
whale-boat as if the most deadly encounter were but a dinner, and his crew
whaleboat, with her last gift --a night-cap for Stubb, the second mate, her
whaleboning that he gave me --not a base kick.  Besides," thinks I,"look at it
whaleman to embark from.  He at once resolved to accompany me to that island,
whalemen supply your kings and queens with coronation stuff!
whales need some sort of popular comprehensive classification, if only an easy
whales, for fear of after-claps in case he got stove and went to Davy Jones.
whales.  many are the men, small and great, old and new, landsmen and seamen,
whaling preparatives needing supervision the mates were fully competent to,
whaling ships from Dunkirk, and politely invite to that town some score or two
whaling voyage was welcome; the great flood-gates of the wonder-world swung
whaling.  No dignity in whaling?  The dignity of our calling the very
whaling; for a whale-ship was my Yale College and my Harvard.
whaling; to my no small surprise, nearly every man maintained a profound
whaling?  But this is not the half; look again.  I freely assert, that the
wharf, Queequeg had not at all noticed what I now alluded to; hence I would
wharves.  But whatever it was of apprehensiveness or uneasiness --to call it so
what have you to complain of?  Didn't he kick with right good will?  it wasn't
what in old times must have been a great central chimney with fire-places all
what seemed like mystery in him, so imperfectly as he was known to me then.
wheelbarrow he had ever seen.  It was in Sag Harbor.  The owners of his ship,
when I came back; what did ye see?  Not much, I replied -- nothing but
when I came to know of what fine steel the head of a harpoon is made, and how
when I felt a sudden sharp poke in my rear, and turning round, was horrified
when I had become more familiar with his broken phraseology, now enable me to
when for scores on scores of miles you wade knee-deep among Tiger-lilies--what
when it cracks.  He aint in his bed now, either, more than three hours out of
when others were set down for magnificent parts in high tragedies, and short
when our smoke was over, he pressed his forehead against mine, clasped me
when that smoking chowder came in, the mystery was delightfully explained.
when the fire has overrunningly wasted all the limbs without consuming them,
when they will, for stave my soul, Jove himself cannot.
whence comest thou?  thy country?  what people?" but mark now, my shipmates,
whence they came.  In some things you would think them but a few hours old.
where but from Nantucket, too, did that first adventurous little sloop put
where from; whereas, they not only receive an answer to those questions, but
where her original ones were lost overboard in a gale --her masts stood
where the eddying depths sucked him ten thousand fathoms down, and"the weeds
where the feast is held.  Now a certain grand merchant ship once touched at
where the outward bound Nantucket whalers frequently touch to augment their
whereas, if a broad footed farmer kicked me, there's a devilish broad insult.
wherefore it was that after having repeatedly smelt the sea as a merchant
wherever you go, Ishmael, said I to myself, as I stood in the middle of a
whether thou lookest out at it from a glass window where the frost is all on
which I experienced on waking up and seeing Queequeg's pagan arm thrown round
which I had so abandonedly embarked.  But it was especially the aspect of the
which amazingly pleased me.  Besides though New Bedford has of late been
which an old shipmate sailed as captain; a man almost as old as he, once
which had no chart, where no Cook or Vancouver had ever sailed.  If American
which is one of the luxurious discomforts of the rich.  For the height of
which you and I, and Captain Peleg there, and Queequeg here, and all of us,
which, it seemed, had in its two uses both brained his foes and soothed his
which, on all hands, radiates without end from God; Himself!  The great God
which, upon the whole, will triumphantly plant the sperm whale-ship at least
whiffs, as if, like the dying whale, my final jets were the strongest and
while I am putting up at this grim sign of the Thunder Cloud.  Upon the whole,
while all his sympathetic shipmates now crowd round Jonah, prepared to lay
while leaning over the bulwarks; and then, as had been usual with him of
whistled at last -- the squall's gone off to leeward, I think.  Bildad, thou
whitish.  It resembled that perpendicular seam sometimes made in the
whittling a toothpick, but I rayther guess you'll be done brown if that ere
whom I had not as yet had a good look at.  They were nearly all whalemen;
whom I now companied with.  We borrowed a wheelbarrow, and embarking our
whose owner at the same time coming close behind us, laid a hand upon both our
wicked name.  Besides, my boy, he has a wife --not three voyages wedded --a
wilfulness, in the fixed and fearless, forward dedication of that glance.  Not
will be completely fitted out, and receive all her crew on board, ere the
will be due; for already she is on the threshold.  But if, in the face of all
will not venture to decide; but certain it was his head was phrenologically
will of God -- that is worship.  And what is the will of God? --to do to my
will show.  Of the names in this list of whale authors, only those following
will then see, I say, that the seven hundred and seventy-seventh part of a
will.  It is out of the idolatrous dotings of the old Egyptians upon broiled
wind Euroclydon kept up a worse howling than ever it did about poor Paul's
window, but it was the second floor back.  I am no coward, but what to make
winter night in the boisterous Atlantic, spite of my wet feet and wetter
winter scene. --It's the breaking-up of the ice-bound stream of Time.  But at
wise man of me, Flask.  D'ye see Ahab standing there, sideways looking over the
wish.  With other men, perhaps, such things would not have been inducements;
with a different flavor, and in good time a fine cod-chowder was placed
with a view of making its interior run well, as they anoint machinery?  Much
with clam-shells.  Mrs. Hussey wore a polished necklace of codfish vertebra;
with him, or whether it was the scar left by some desperate wound, no one
with that.  Now when I looked about the quarter-deck, for some one having
with the burden of life in a world full of grave peddlers, all bowed to the
with the darkness towards the south --wherever in your wisdom you may conclude
with the relics of a recently concluded repast, turned round to us and
with thee?  Behold the hope of him is vain!  But I have swam through
with whalemen.  For besides the great length of the whaling voyage, the
with whom I conversed upon the subject.  The picture represents a Cape-Horner
with.  How he flashed at me! --his eyes like powder-pans!  is he mad?  Anyway
withal; he doubtless has tarried whole weeks ashore.  But who could show a
withdrawals of his fingers (whereby he seemed to be scorching them badly),
without lifting his eyes; and then went on mumbling -- for where your
without some little chat.  How it is I know not; but there is no place like a
without winking; and yet, here they sat at a social breakfast table --all of
wives and widows.  A muffled silence reigned, only broken at times by the
woe is
won't allow it; I won't have my premises spoiled.  Go for the locksmith,
won't have it.  But let us understand each other.  I have given thee a hint
wonders of God!  But, though the world scouts at us whale hunters, yet does it
wondrous whale was but a species of magnified mouse, or at least water-rat,
wood, so that at every step there was a joint.  At my first glimpse of the
woodlands in a grass clout, followed by the nibbling goats, as if he were a
word he.  Queequeg, said I, let's go; this fellow has broken loose from
word, Queequeg, said I, rather digressively; hell is an idea first born on
words he finally departed, leaving me, for the moment, in no small wonderment
words were put to us by a stranger, who, pausing before us, levelled his
working away at the knotted cords of the large bag I before spoke of as being
works I possess the only copy extant -- it maketh a marvellous difference,
world charms from Gospel duty!  Woe to him who seeks to pour oil upon the
world declines honoring us whalemen, is this: they think that, at best, our
world it occupies; how it stands there, away off shore, more lonely than the
world's a ship on its passage out, and not a voyage complete; and the pulpit
world's capital, the bones of a whale, brought all the way from the Syrian
world, if only to fall right asleep.  And now that I think of it, that's
world, in all meridians.  We cannibals must help these Christians.
world.  This soothing savage had redeemed it.  There he sat, his very
worse --at last I got up, dressed, and softly going down in my stockinged
worship.  consequently, i must then unite with him in his; ergo, I must turn
would I come down from this mast-head and sit on the hatches there where you
would almost as soon have expected him to turn out of his bunk without his
would almost fancy you trod some old craft's cockpits, especially of such a
would do to me?  Why, unite with me in my particular Presbyterian form of
would fain advance naught but substantiated facts.  But after embattling his
would follow me.  But previous to turning in, I took my heavy bearskin
would have been the reverberating crack and din of that bony step, that their
would have repelled most others, they were the very magnets that thus drew
would not do to be sellin' human heads about the streets when folks is goin'
would not move a peg, nor say a single word, nor even look at me, nor
would sink the ship before the anchor could be got up; involuntarily I paused
wrapper --(he had a redder one afterwards) pooh, pooh!  What a fine frosty
write, does he?  I say, Quohog, blast ye!  dost thou sign thy name or make thy
ye feel considerable proud of having served in those marchant ships.  But
ye have heard of that, I dare say.  Oh yes, that every one knows a'most --I
ye see a white one, split your lungs for him!  What d'ye think of that now,
ye've been to sea before now; sure of that?  Sir, said I, I thought I
ye, shipmates, morning.  Morning it is, said I. Come along, Queequeg,
ye--there's something special in the wind.  Stand by for it, Flask.  Ahab has
ye.  Think of that!  When every moment we thought the ship would sink!  Death
years
years he knows not the land; so that when he comes to it at last, it smells
years past the whale-ship has been the pioneer in ferreting out the remotest
yellow warehouse --our first point of departure --must be left on the larboard
yes, I can.  As for Peleg himself, he took it more like a philosopher; but
yet I also felt a strange awe of him; but that sort of awe, which I cannot at
yet carry on their bones unholy flesh.  It makes a stranger stare.  But,
yet ever thinking that if I could but stir it one single inch, the horrid
yet had he in his straight-bodied coat, spilled tuns upon tuns of leviathan
yet he don't look so.  In fact, he ain't sick; but no, he isn't well either.
yet lingering images of those thousand-fold perils he had calmly confronted
yet of books there are
you about him?  Say that!  They didn't tell much of anything about him; only
you are heavy, it's grinding the face of the poor.  Get off, Queequeg!  Look,
you can't fool us that way --you can't fool us.  It is the easiest thing in
you design for my bedfellow --a sort of connexion, landlord, which is an
you ever stand in the head of a whale-boat?  did you ever strike a fish?
you found yourself in a wide, low, straggling entry with old-fashioned
you stand?  I was a little staggered, but go a-whaling I must, and I would;
you through. --It's the Black Sea in a midnight gale. --It's the unnatural
you what it is, landlord, said I, quite calmly, you'd better stop spinning
you will be so good as to unsay that story about selling his head, which if
you; both his hands press upon me.  I have read ye by what murky light may
young Hittite.  What church dost thee mean?  answer me.  Finding myself thus
young man, we may be taking the bread from those widows and those orphans.
young man.  No, said Peleg, and he hasn't been baptized right either, or
your coming.  Here ye strike but splintered hearts together i{there}, ye shall
your friends who have gone before are clearing out the seven-storied heavens,
your hat in presence of the Czar, and take it off to Queequeg!  No more!  I
your own hammock, and cover yourself with your own blanket, and sleep in your
your patched boots are stopping the way.  So on I went.  I now by instinct
your snugness and the cold of the outer air.  Then there you lie like the one
your tricks aboard here; so mind your eye.  But it so happened just then,
yours, I should like to know, Mr. Humpback?  Do you want a
yourself comfortable now, and good night to ye.  I turned round from eyeing
yourself feel such a mystical vibration, when first told that you and your
youth Daggoo had voluntarily shipped on board of a whaler, lying in a lonely
zoology and anatomy.  Nevertheless, though of real knowledge there be little,
