















































































































    
    
     According to usage they
     And all this mixes with your most mystic mood; so that fact and fancy,
     And jolly enough were
     Astern there, sir, astern!  Lo, lo!  And who art thou, boy?  I see not my
     Aye, sir, I think I can; all seams and dents but one.
     Be it said, that in this vocation of whaling, sinecures are unknown;
     Besides, the old man well knew that to steer by transpointed needles, though
     But you must look at this matter in every light.  Though so short a period
     Come aboard, come aboard!  cried the gay Bachelor's commander, lifting a
     During the most violent shocks of the
     Either do that, sir, or waste in one day more oil than we may make good in a
     Excellent!  Thou'st hit the world by that.  I know not, sir, but I was born
     Faith?  What's that?  Why, faith, sir, it's only a sort of exclamation-like
     Hist, then.  How dost thou know that some entire, living, thinking thing may
     I wrecked thee, and to-day the compasses would feign have wrecked me.  So,
     Look ye here, then, cried Ahab, passionately advancing, and leaning with
     Lord, that the winds that come from heaven should be so unmannerly!  This is
     Mend it, eh?  I think we had best have a new line altogether.  I'll see Mr.
     Next day, a large
     Next morning the not-yet-subsided sea
     No, no, it wasn't; I said the corpusants have mercy on us all; and I hope
     Nor has this thy whale sunwards turned his dying head, and then gone round
     Not seldom in this life, when, on the
     Oh, boy, nor will I thee, unless I should thereby drag thee to worse horrors
     Owing to a confident reliance upon other means of determining the vessel's
     Penetrating further and further into the
     Poor rover!  will ye never have done with all this weary roving?  Where go ye
     Rarmai (it will do; it is easy), he murmured at last, and signed to be
     Seat thyself sultanically among the
     Sing, sir?  Do I sing?  Oh, I'm indifferent enough, sir, for that; but the
     Starbuck seemed wrestling with an angel; but turning from the door, he
     Steering now south-eastward by Ahab's
     Stubb and Flask
     The
     The anchors are working, sir.  Shall I get them inboard?  Strike nothing,
     The blacksmith availing himself of the mild,
     The coffin laid upon two line-tubs, between
     The four whales slain that evening
     The precipitating manner in which Captain
     The season for the Line at length drew
     There he goes now; to him nothing's happened; but to me, the skewer seems
     There's a sight!  There's sound!  The greyheaded woodpecker tapping the
     Upon searching, it was found
     Warmest climes but nurse the cruellest
     We must save that boy.  He's drowned with the rest on 'em, last night, said
     Well, then, did I believe all ye say, oh my pilot!  I have here two pledges
     What will the owners say, sir?  Let the owners stand on Nantucket beach and
     What's that bunch of lucifers dodging about there for?  muttered Stubb,
     When gliding by the Bashee isles we emerged
     While now the fated Pequod had been
     With matted beard, and swathed in a
     Yes, yes, round the Cape of Good Hope is the shortest way to Nantucket,
     a spar, a number of the seamen, arrested by the glare, now cohered
     and Ahab moodily stalked away with the weapon; the sound of his ivory leg,
     and not finding anything, had again dashed on; again paused, and lowered her
     and seemed merely contrived for his own individual diversion.  And Ahab, he
     and so be unsolved to the last.  And this thought it must have been which
     and so remorseless a havoc; whether he must not at last be exterminated from
     and the grave-digger in the play sings, spade in hand.  Dost thou never?
     and thereupon, when some expressed their delighted surprise, he, in
     and trappers of the West, when the far west (in whose sunset suns still
     be instantly brought to him, nor was there any denying him; seeing that, of
     both the ancestry and posterity of Grief go further than the ancestry and
     bowsprit was seen the long lower jaw of the last whale they had slain.
     buckskin legs and calves of legs I've seen in shop windows wouldn't compare
     but the sea will have its way.  Stubb, for one, can't fight it.  You see, Mr.
     but what after all canst thou do, but tell the poor, pitiful point, where
     but, besides the application to him of the generic remark above, this
     captain ahab mistakes; it is I. The oil in the hold is leaking, sir.  We
     days' suffering, laid him in his hammock, close to the very sill of the door
     during the midnight watch on the bearded forecastle of Noah's ark.  Was it
     elephants;
     greeted my dear Pacific with uncounted thanks, for now the long supplication
     had the young and loving healthy wife listened with no unhappy nervousness,
     have his way.  If, then, he were this instant--put aside, that crime would
     head of the lance, and then handing to the mate the long iron rod remaining,
     his work).  Well, well, well!  Stubb knows him best of all, and Stubb
     impenetrable Japans.  Thus this mysterious, divine Pacific zones the world's
     is to run for Moby Dick?  the very course he swung to this day noon?  now
     man!  Ahab's harpoon, the one forged at Perth's fire, remained firmly lashed
     markest thou not that the gale comes from the eastward, the very course Ahab
     mortal miseries shall still fertilely beget to themselves an eternally
     multum in parvo, Sheffield contrivances, assuming the exterior -- though a
     of hickory, with the bark still investing it, Ahab fitted the end to the
     oh, it's his son he's lost!  I take back the coat and watch --what says Ahab?
     or forty turns to form a preliminary hand-coil to toss overboard, when the
     slim, sure enough!  Now, for most folks one pair of legs lasts a lifetime,
     story of his wretched fate.  Belated, and not innocently, one bitter winter's
     that --let us say it again --no dying Chaldee or Greek had higher and holier
     the Unshored; therefore, to the death-longing eyes of such men, who still
     the carpenter makes a pagoda-looking cage for it.  An oarsman sprains his
     the crimson fight were done: and floating in the lovely sunset sea and sky,
     the forge choked up with cinders; the house was sold; the mother dived down
     thee by thy black hand, than though I grasped an Emperor's!  There go two
     there to a hair, do I. Is't a riddle?  I should humbly call it a poser, sir.
     things real are there, but imponderable thoughts?  Here now's the very
     thy grave-stone, too, within the churchyard, and come hither, till we marry
     till at last, Perth, withdrawing his iron from the fire, began hammering it
     to it.
     vain!  In vain, oh whale, dost thou seek intercedings with yon
     was kneeling beneath him on the ship's deck, and with face thrown up like
     when in distress, but also from the human look of their round heads and
     where his bayonet
     which have now been hunted for thousands of years, by Semiramis, by Porus,
     while Stubb and Flask --who in some small degree seemed then to be sharing
     wind!  oh-he-yo, cheerly, men!  the crew singing for joy, that so
     with the Pequod's; at almost every shock the helmsman had not failed to
     woman of sixty-five who ran away with a bald-headed young tinker once.  And
'Tis but indifferent architecture to make a blind dome; here's one.  No, no,
( sneezes) there's no knee-joint to make; that might puzzle a little; but a
( sneezes)--yes it's ( sneezes)--bless my soul, it won't let me speak!  This is
( sneezes).  Come, come, you old Smut, there, bear a hand, and let's have
(Carpenter standing before his vice-bench, and by the light of two lanterns
(turns to go).  Oh, Life!  Here I am, proud as Greek god, and yet standing
-- Come hither, broken-hearted; here is another life without the guilt of
-- Hemp only can kill thee.  The gallows, ye mean. --I am immortal then, on
--Aye and he would fain kill all his crew.  Does he not say he will not strike
--I hold it here; he would have killed me with the very thing I handle now.
--On deck!  Nay, sir, not yet; I do entreat.  And I do dare, sir --to be
--a hearse and its plumes floating over the ocean with the waves for the
--but here --to work!  Fashioned at last into an arrowy shape, and welded by
--he called for linen thread; and moving to the binnacle, slipped out the two
--if there be no other way --for eight-and-forty hours only --only that --you
--oh!  ah! --I guess so; so; --yes, yes --oh dear!  Look ye, carpenter, I dare say
--that one and all, they started from their reveries, and for the space of
--that's all, sir.  Um, um; go on.  I was about to say, sir, that-- Art
--there's naught beneath.  And yet, a coffin with a body in it rings pretty
--though long parched by the dead drought of the earthy life, --in ye, men yet
.. < chapter cix 21  AHAB AND STARBUCK IN THE CABIN >
.. < chapter cvi 29  AHAB'S LEG >
.. < chapter cvii 11  THE CARPENTER >
.. < chapter cviii 7  AHAB AND THE CARPENTER THE DECK--FIRST NIGHT WATCH >
.. < chapter cx 4  QUEEQUEG IN HIS COFFIN >
.. < chapter cxi 2  THE PACIFIC >
.. < chapter cxii 13  THE BLACKSMITH >
.. < chapter cxiii 2  THE FORGE >
.. < chapter cxiv 20  THE GILDER >
.. < chapter cxix 19  THE CANDLES >
.. < chapter cxv 16  THE PEQUOD MEETS THE BACHELOR >
.. < chapter cxvi 2  THE DYING WHALE >
.. < chapter cxvii 23  THE WHALE WATCH >
.. < chapter cxviii 2  THE QUADRANT >
.. < chapter cxx 10  THE DECK TOWARDS THE END OF THE FIRST NIGHT WATCH >
.. < chapter cxxi 2  MIDNIGHT--THE FORECASTLE BULWARKS >
.. < chapter cxxii 2  MIDNIGHT ALOFT--THUNDER AND LIGHTNING >
.. < chapter cxxiii 10  THE MUSKET >
.. < chapter cxxiv 25  THE NEEDLE >
.. < chapter cxxv 6  THE LOG AND LINE >
.. < chapter cxxvi 14  THE LIFE-BUOY >
.. < chapter cxxvii 2  THE DECK >
.. < chapter cxxviii 9  THE PEQUOD MEETS THE RACHEL >
.. <p 458 >
.. <p 459 >
.. <p 459 >
.. <p 460 >
.. <p 461 >
.. <p 462 >
.. <p 462 >
.. <p 463 >
.. <p 464 >
.. <p 465 >
.. <p 465 >
.. <p 466 >
.. <p 467 >
.. <p 468 >
.. <p 469 >
.. <p 469 >
.. <p 469n. >
.. <p 470 >
.. <p 471 >
.. <p 472 >
.. <p 472 >
.. <p 473 >
.. <p 474 >
.. <p 475 >
.. <p 476 >
.. <p 477 >
.. <p 478 >
.. <p 479 >
.. <p 479 >
.. <p 480 >
.. <p 481 >
.. <p 482 >
.. <p 483 >
.. <p 484 >
.. <p 485 >
.. <p 485 >
.. <p 486 >
.. <p 487 >
.. <p 487 >
.. <p 488 >
.. <p 489 >
.. <p 490 >
.. <p 491 >
.. <p 491 >
.. <p 492 >
.. <p 493 >
.. <p 494 >
.. <p 495 >
.. <p 495 >
.. <p 496 >
.. <p 497 >
.. <p 498 >
.. <p 499 >
.. <p 500 >
.. <p 501 >
.. <p 502 >
.. <p 502 >
.. <p 503 >
.. <p 504 >
.. <p 505 >
.. <p 505 >
.. <p 506 >
.. <p 507 >
.. <p 508 >
.. <p 508 >
.. <p 509 >
.. <p 510 >
.. <p 511 >
.. <p 512 >
.. <p 512 >
.. <p 513 >
.. <p 514 >
.. <p 515 >
.. <p 515 >
.. <p 516 >
.. <p 517 >
.. <p 518 >
.. <p 519 >
.. <p 520 >
.. <p 521 >
.. <p 521 >
.. <p 522 >
.. <p 523 >
A peculiar walk in this old man, a certain slight but painful appearing yawing
Abashed glances of servile wonder were exchanged by the sailors, as this was
About it!  There; keep thy finger on it.  This is a cogent vice thou hast
Ahab had quitted the Samuel Enderby of London, had not been unattended with
Ahab standing by the helm.  Starbuck approaching him.  We must send down the
Ahab thus acted.  It may have been a flash of honesty in him; or mere
Ahab's brain, as standing like an iron statue at his accustomed place beside
Ahab's, was eyeing the same sun with him; only the lids of his eyes half
Ahab, leaning over the taffrail, eyed the homeward-bound craft, he took from
Ahab, said the reddening mate, moving further into the cabin, with a daring
Ahab.  But if these secret golden keys did seem to open in him his own secret
Ahab.  Devils!  Dost thou then so much as dare to critically think of me?
And look ye, let the carpenter make another log, and mend thou the line.  See
Antilles.  If ye find him, then comfort him; for he must be very sad; for
Bachelor, which had just wedged in her last cask of oil, and bolted down her
Bashee Isles, between which lies one of the tropical outlets from the China
Bashee isles (in whose sweet woods mild lovers must be walking), and with
Because, as has been elsewhere noticed, those whales, influenced by some
Behring's straits, and into the remotest secret drawers and lockers of the
Burtons were hoisted.
But ere he entered his cabin, a light, unnatural, half-bantering, yet most
But heedless of all this, his mood seized Ahab, as he happened to glance
But, in the end, it all came out; this one matter did, at least.  That direful
Captain Ahab!  sir, sir!  here's Pip, trying to get on board again.  Peace,
Carpenter, when he's through with that buckle, tell him to forge a pair of
Christian or civilized part of the crew said it was mermaids, and shuddered;
Come hither!  bury thyself in a life which, to your now equally abhorred and
Commodores, and Captains; the world brags of thee, of thy cunning and might;
Cruppered with a coffin!  Sailing about with a grave-yard tray!  But never
Daggoo!  What say ye, pagans!  Will ye give me as much blood as will cover
Death plucked down some virtuous elder brother, on whose whistling daily toil
East-south-east --which he was to steer, if practicable, was once more given
Eternity.  An awe that cannot be named would steal over you as you sat by the
Evangelist St.  John.  And meet it is, that over these sea-pastures,
Fate.  But as ever before, the pagan harpooneers remained almost wholly
Flask --was startled by a cry so plaintively wild and unearthly --like
Flask.  But hark, again, and I'll answer ye the other thing.  First take your
Forty men in one ship hunting the Sperm Whale for forty-eight months think
Forward there!  Set all sail, and keep her to the wind!  And thus, while the
God's sake --I beg, I conjure --here exclaimed the stranger Captain to Ahab,
God, not that; yet I fear something, Captain Ahab.  Is not this harpoon for
Hand me those main-mast links there; I would fain feel this pulse, and let
Hark ye; if ye find Pip, tell all the Antilles he's a runaway; a coward, a
Hast lost any men?  Not enough to speak of --two islanders, that's all; --but
Hear me, then: I take that mast-head flame we saw for a sign of good luck;
Hold; while Prometheus is about it, I'll order a complete man after a
Holding by a shroud, Starbuck was standing on the quarter-deck; at every
I kept my job-shop in the Vineyard; they might have taken it into their
I mean.  Canst thou not drive that old Adam away?  Truly, sir, I begin to
I must see.  Aye, aye; and powder in the pan; -- that's not good.  Best spill
I own thy speechless, placeless power; but to the last gasp of my earthquake
I then pay over the same with pitch, sir?  moving his hand as with a
I'll contribute to raise rods on the Himmalehs and Andes, that all the world
If.  But once gone through, we trace the round again; and are infants, boys,
In Sperm-whalemen with any considerable quantity of oil on board, it is a
Instantly the yards were squared, to the lively song of Ho!  the fair
Isle of Albemarle, one of the Gallipagos, is cut by the Equator right in the
Isles of the sea combined.  Moreover: we are to consider, that from the
Just in time, sir.  If the captain pleases, I will now mark the length.  Let
Labor's iron lullaby, the blacksmith's infants were rocked to slumber.  Oh,
Look, driven one leg to death, and spavined the other for life, and now wears
Lord and master over all this scene, the captain stood erect on the ship's
Main-top-sail yard. --Tashtego passing new lashings around it.  Um, um, um.
Manilla isles, the Spanish land-breeze, wantonly turned sailor, had gone to
Marine Insurance companies have extra guarantees?  Here are hydrants,
Matsmai, and Sikoke.  With his snow-white new ivory leg braced against the
Moby Dick had suddenly loomed up out of the blue water, not very far to
Moby Dick?  This instant thou must be eyeing him.  These eyes of mine look
Moreover, the ship's forge was ordered to be hoisted out of its temporary
Nevertheless, this old man's was a patient hammer wielded by a patient arm.
No murmur, no impatience, no petulence did come from him.  Silent, slow, and
Noah's flood, he despised Noah's Ark; and if ever the world is to be again
Now, as the lightning rod to a spire on shore is intended to carry off the
Now, from the South and West the Pequod was drawing nigh to Formosa and the
Oh, high aspiring, rainbowed jet! --that one strivest, this one jettest all in
Oh, sir, it will break bones--beware, beware!  No fear; I like a good grip; I
Only a fool would try it.  Say he were pinioned even; knotted all over with
Pequod thrust her undaunted bows into the opposing wind, for the supposed
Pequod was as infallibly going West.  But ere the first wild alarm could get
Pequod's main-chains, and he sprang to the deck.  Immediately he was
Pequod.  He desired that ship to unite with his own in the search; by sailing
Perth to the shank, the steel soon pointed the end of the iron; and as the
Perth, resting for a moment on his hammer; I am past scorching; not easily
Pip?  come to help; eh, Pip?  Pip?  whom call ye Pip?  Pip jumped from the
Prometheus about there? --the blacksmith, I mean --what's he about?  He must be
Queequeg in his own proper person was a riddle to unfold; a wondrous work in
Queequeg lay with closed eyes, as if in a dream.  Pip was led away, and the
Queequeg suddenly rallied; soon there seemed no need of the carpenter's box:
Queequeg's tattooing burned like Satanic blue flames on his body.  The tableau
Queequeg, die; and I'll beat ye your dying march.  I have heard, murmured
Queequeg, was seized with a fever, which brought him nigh to his endless end.
Rachel's the more melancholy, was the circumstance, that not only was one of
Rat-tat!  So man's seconds tick!  Oh!  how immaterial are all materials!  What
Signals, ensigns, and jacks of all colors were flying from her rigging, on
Skies the most effulgent but basket the deadliest thunders: gorgeous Cuba
Some hours after midnight, the Typhoon abated so much, that through the
South-Sea-men's cabin furniture), and pointing it towards Starbuck,
Starbuck looked away.  With a blow from the top-maul Ahab knocked off the steel
Starbuck lowly murmured: -- Loveliness unfathomable, as ever lover saw in his
Starbuck, a wave has such a great long start before it leaps, all round the
Starbuck, after a melancholy pause.  Rig it, carpenter; do not look at me
Starbuck, gazing down the scuttle, that in violent fevers, men, all
Starbuck, going forward, pushed against some one.  It was Stubb.  What
Stop that thunder!  Plenty too much thunder up here.  What's the use of
Stubb about it.
Stubb by the shoulder, and pointing his hand towards the weather bow,
Stubb.  It will make a good enough one, said Flask, the carpenter here can
Tahitian and the grizzly Manxman.  Take the reel, one of ye, I'll heave.
That unblinkingly vivid Japanese sun seems the blazing focus of the glassy
That's mud; we leave clay to ditchers, sir.  The fellow's impious!  What art
The land is hundreds of leagues away, and locked Japan the nearest.  I stand
The parted mouth of Tashtego revealed his shark-white teeth, which strangely
The recall signals were placed in the rigging; darkness came on; and forced
The waif-pole was thrust upright into the dead whale's spout-hole; and the
Then turning --the last link held fast in his left hand, he put his foot upon
There, take the order, and away.  Now, what's he speaking about, and who's he
They went towards the extreme stern, on the ship's lee side, where the deck,
This done, pole, iron, and rope --like the Three Fates --remained inseparable,
Thou canst blind; but I can then grope.  Thou canst consume; but I can then
Thunder!  said Ahab, groping his way along the bulwarks to his pivot-hole;
Titans, they say, hummed snatches when chipping out the craters for volcanoes;
Turk's-headed life-lines, each three feet long hanging all round to the
Typhoon which had struck her directly ahead.  When darkness came on, sky and
Typhoon, the man at the Pequod's jaw-bone tiller had several times been
Unwittingly here a secret has been divulged, which perhaps might more
What a hold they have, too!  I wonder, Flask, whether the world is anchored
What are you talking about, then?  Not one ship in a hundred carries rods,
What!  hope to wrest this old man's living power from his own living hands?
When the last nail was driven, and the lid duly planed and fitted, he
White Whale, on the White Whale's own
With a wild whimsiness, he now used his coffin for a sea-chest; and emptying
You would have almost thought they were pulling down the cursed Bastile, such
[Sudden, repeated flashes of lightning; the nine flames leap lengthwise to
a charmed circle of everlasting December, bid defiance to all pursuit from
a double horizon, as it were.  I will wager something now, whispered Stubb
a grandeur, and a woe.  But from the same point, take mankind in mass, and
a life-buoy of it.  It's like turning an old coat; going to bring the flesh on
a nasty night, lad.
a piece of sail-cloth being rolled up for a pillow, Queequeg now entreated to
a shoal of whales, which had led them some four or five miles from the ship;
a-calling with his horn for all legs, true or false, as brewery-men go round
abhorring, landed world, is more oblivious than death.  Come hither!  put up
about; and the hollow hull echoed under foot, as if you were treading over
above the snow-line.  Oh, ye frozen heavens!  look down here.  Ye did beget
accomplished, and with such liveliness of expertness in him, too; all this
according to its vicissitudes.  But as he was now bringing the ship as near
account the whale immortal in his species, however perishable in his
accounted bits of ivory; heads he deemed but top-blocks; men themselves he
ache; my whole beaten brain seems as beheaded, and rolling on some stunning
across here. --Rig-a-dig, dig, dig!  huzza!  Oh for a game cock now to sit upon
acts of the gladness, and the one long, and as yet uncatastrophied fifth act
adrift from the spars, and went eddying away to leeward, like the feathers
adult generations must be contemporary.  And what that is, we may soon gain
advanced to him.  Ahab stood before him, and was lightly unwinding some thirty
advancing.  Hands off from that holiness!  Where sayest thou Pip was, boy?
advancing.  How was it?  It seemed that somewhat late on the afternoon of the
affair.
aft --the shivered remnants of the jib and fore and main-top-sails were cut
afterwards learned, the bachelor had met with the most surprising success;
again, without a lesson to me.  Oh, trebly hooped and welded hip of power!
again.  Now, then, Pip, we'll talk this over; I do suck most wondrous
again. --Oh Mary!  Mary! --boy!  boy!  boy! --But if I wake thee not to death, old
against the door.  On this level, Ahab's hammock swings within; his head
ago --not a good life-time --the census of the buffalo in Illinois exceeded the
ago is it since you said the very contrary?  Didn't you once say that whatever
ahab?  ahab seized a loaded musket from the rack (forming part of most
ahead; and when she profoundly settled by the stern, he turned behind, and
air; and I'm down in the whole world's books.  I am so rich, I could have
all conspired, so far as in them lay, to muffle up the knowledge of this
all day upon smooth, slow heaving swells; seated in his boat, light as a
all else in him thinned, and his cheek-bones grew sharper, his eyes,
all hum of human weal or woe; in these most candid and impartial seas; where
all inquiring heads at last.  Up with it!  So.  The log was heaved.  The
all misery in others that is not mad.  Thou should'st go mad, blacksmith;
all mortals, some dying men are the most tyrannical; and certainly, since they
all my pains to go for nothing with that coffin?  And now I'm ordered to make
all the indifferent promptitude of his character, proceeded into the
all the more wonderful, for that while cruising in the same seas numerous
all their pains seemed naught.  Though lifted to the very top of the cranes,
all these seemed the strange calm things preluding some riotous and desperate
all waned at last with the pallidness aloft; and once more the Pequod and
all!  To sailors, oaths are household words; they will swear in the trance
all-contributed and all-receptive ocean alluringly spread forth his whole
all-quickening sun, that only calls forth life, but gives it not again.  Yet
all-ramifying heartlessness; --yet was it oddly dashed at times, with an old,
all.  And equally fallacious seems the conceit, that because the so-called
almost any seams and dents; never mind how hard the metal, blacksmith?
almost forgot the little oval slate, smoothed ivory, where he figures up the
almost seemed as if far over from the deep green convent valleys of the
aloft, few words were heard from the enchanted crew; who in one thick
alone here upon an open sea, with two oceans and a whole continent between
aloud, Thou art a full ship and homeward bound, thou sayest; well, then,
altar.  Blast the boat!  let it go!  cried Stubb at this instant, as a
always says he's queer; says nothing but that one sufficient little word
am I in the dark side of earth, that its other side, the theoretic bright one,
an albatross, which sometimes are cast to the winds when that storm-tossed
an immortality-preserver!  I'll think of that.  But no.  So far gone
an oil-butt, lashed down to the floor for a centrepiece.  In the forecastle,
ancient tongues had been really spoken in their hearing by some lofty
and Ahab, --aye, man, and all of us, --were in no more danger then, in my poor
and I'm the professor of musical glasses --tap, tap! ( Ahab to himself.)
and angular log attached hung, long untouched, just beneath the railing of
and body, lungs and life, old Ahab is bound.  And that ye may know to what
and deeper, disturbing the slumbers of the huge ground-tier butts; and from
and destroy thee!  As the frantic old man thus spoke and thus trampled with
and doom, -- that's fair for Moby Dick.  It's a fair wind that's only fair for
and feel thy heaviest hammer between my eyes.  Answer!  Can'st thou smoothe
and fro, not only had gathered no moss; but what is more, had rubbed off
and from the hearts of infinite Pacifics, the thousand mermaids sing to them
and hark ye, my conscience is in this ship's keel. --On deck!  Captain
and invoking brow, with his last dying motions.  He too worships fire; most
and lances, and jealously watching his every sooty movement, as he toiled.
and line.  The ship was sailing plungingly; astern the billows rolled in
and men, and Ifs eternally.  Where lies the final harbor, whence we unmoor no
and on sea!  Both were silent again, as one man.  The grey dawn came on, and
and potentates of fire, have to do or not with earthly Ahab, yet, in this
and set; she heads her course.  Stern all!  Oh Moby Dick, I clutch thy heart
and skin together? --And would I be a murderer, then, if --and slowly,
and stir nothing, but lash everything.  The wind rises, but it has not got
and that must be because they use them mercifully, as a tender-hearted old
and the hard pressed forge shooting up its intense straight flame, the Parsee
and the houseless, familyless old man staggered off a vagabond in crape; his
and the sound of the hickory pole, both hollowly ringing along every plank.
and there they were.  Yet, as previously hinted, this omnitooled,
and there's a great cry for life-boats.  And here's the heron's leg!  long and
and turns him to it, --how slowly, but how steadfastly, his homage-rendering
and twenty hours on the stretch, they were engaged in the boats, steadily
and two!  Let's make a General of him!  Ho, where's his harpoon?  Lay it
and walls, came up to her, not unsweetly, in her nursery; and so, to stout
and while they were yet in swift chase to windward, the white hump and head of
and, I may say, an extremely gentlemanlike sort of business thou art in here,
anomalously did its duty.  What that was, whether essence of quicksilver, or a
anvil.  Look ye, blacksmith, these are the gathered nail-stubbs of the steel
any it had.  He lay without moving a few minutes, then told one to go to his
any serious leakage in the precious cargo.
anybody else, never mind how foolish?  Here!  cried Starbuck, seizing
anywhere; if she is, she swings with an uncommon long cable, though.  There,
appearances lusty, yet Ahab did not deem it entirely trustworthy.  And,
apprise Captain Ahab of the circumstance.  Ere knocking at his state-room, he
are considerations which render even this circumstance of little or no account
are none; the horizon floats; and this nakedness of unrelieved radiance is
are now aggregated into vast but widely separated, unfrequent armies.  That is
are only beat with water-lilies, will ye do one little errand for me?  Seek
arm slowly fell; for a moment he almost seemed to stagger.  Standing behind
arrange it easily.  Bring it up; there's nothing else for it, said
art but my fiery father; my sweet mother, I know not.  Oh, cruel!  what hast
as an opposing argument in this matter.  Natural as it is to be somewhat
as the insufferable splendors of God's throne.  Well that Ahab's quadrant
aside.
asleep, Mr Stubb; go thou down, and wake him, and tell him.  I must see to
astern?  Upon this every soul was confounded; for the phenomenon just then
astrological-looking instrument placed to his eye, he remained in that posture
at a dollar an inch; in such a comparison an irresistible argument would seem
at all.  They soak water, they do; and of
at its every pore; and the studded iron-bound cask followed the sailor to the
at last the twelve rods were made, Ahab tried them, one by one, by spiralling
at last upon the great South Sea; were it not for other things, I could have
at last!  Such were the sounds that now came hurtling from out the old man's
at length remain but one little heap of ashes!  Aye, cried Stubb, but
at the beginning, and is at the middle when midway, and comes to an end at
at the bottom of a well.  And a well, or an ice-house, it somehow proved to
at the masonry of the try-works, from which the huge pots had been removed.
at your coat collar.  Don't you see, then, that for these extra risks the
awake.
away, Queequeg, to every one's consternation, commanded that the thing should
away, as if toil were life itself, and the heavy beating of his hammer the
awestruck by the aspect of their commander, the seamen clustered together on
babe; living without premeditated reference to this world or the next.  You
back the main-yard; up Burtons, and break out in the main-hold.  It were
bade him hold it upright, without its touching the deck.  Then, with the
bag and bring out his little god, Yojo.  Then crossing his arms on his breast
baptismal blood.  Now, mustering the spare poles from below, and selecting one
barrels of sperm; above which, in her top-mast cross-trees, you saw slender
basement of his dwelling, but with a separate entrance to it; so that always
be ashes.  Take the homage of these poor eyes, and shutter-hands.  I would
be lifted into his final bed, that he might make trial of its comforts, if
be more hideous than a caged tiger, then.  I could not endure the sight;
be sensible, Flask?  it's easy to be sensible; why don't ye, then?  any man
be, thou leapest out of darkness; but I am darkness leaping out of light,
beauty and brilliancy of the ocean's skin, one forgets the tiger heart that
because of all this, the lower parts of a ship's
been annually slain on the nor' west coast by the Americans alone; yet there
been woven into the shrouds and the cordage.  While this pallidness was burning
before, catch somewhat of the rushing breeze, and joyfully feel our bagging
begin welding the twelve into one, when Ahab stayed his hand, and said he
beginning, hence callest thyself unbegun.  I know that of me, which thou
begrimed, blistered old blacksmith, had not removed his portable forge to
beheld who were bystanders when Zoroaster died.  For whatever is truly
beheld with what seemed redoubled supernaturalness in their pallor.  The
beheld, must ever after be the sea of his adoption.  It rolls the midmost
being buried in his hammock, according to the usual sea-custom, tossed like
believe it did, sir; does the ferrule stand, sir?  Well enough.  But art
beneath; like those fabled undulations of the Ephesian sod over the buried
better ( sneezes).  Halloa, this bone dust is ( sneezes)-- why it's
beware of thyself, old man.  He waxes brave, but nevertheless obeys; most
beyond thee, thou clear spirit, to whom all thy eternity is but time, all
big generous hands they are, to be sure.  These are your iron fists, hey?
big vice of wood, the carpenter symmetrically supplies the constellation.  A
billows are my foster-brothers!
billows have still rolled on speechless and unspoken to, as stars that shine
birch canoe; and so sociably mixing with the soft waves themselves, that
bird is on the wing.  The three corresponding new sails were now bent and
birth-mark in the brow of man, is but the stamp of sorrow in the signers.
bit of steel Ahab can make one of his own, that will point as true as any.
black tragedy of the melancholy ship, and mocked it!
black, glossy back, and far out upon the
blacksmith eyed the razors as though he would fain not use them.  Take them,
blacksmith was about giving the barbs their final heat, prior to tempering
blessed calms would last.  But the mingled, mingling threads of life are woven
blinding palpableness must have been the cause.  Thrusting his head half way
blunted needle endwise on the top of it, and less strongly hammered that,
boat --the swiftest keeled of all --seemed to have succeeded in fastening --at
boat that had killed it lay by its side all night; and that boat was Ahab's.
boat's bottom at the stern, and left it again, all dripping through like a
boats; and though she had thus continued doing till day light; yet not the
boiler, and filled it; that the steward had plugged his spare coffee-pot and
bones hast builded thy separate throne somewhere in the heart of these
bones of murderers.  Quick!  forge me the harpoon.  And forge me first, twelve
bosom of his frock. --Ahab comes slowly from the cabin-gangway, and hears Pip
bosom!  Despatch!  and get these traps out of sight.  He goes aft.  That was
both feet.  Out of this revelation, part by part, at last came out the four
both hands on Perth's shoulders; look ye here -- here --can ye smoothe out a
both useful and capricious.  The one grand stage where he enacted all his
bottom, as if to yield him his pillow, though in sooth but a hard one.  And
bowels for a laugh?  And look ye, Mr. Starbuck --but it's too dark to look.
boy; Ahab's cabin shall be Pip's home henceforth, while Ahab lives.  Thou
boyhood's thoughtless faith, adolescence' doubt (the common doom), then
braces!  Up helm! --square in!  In an instant the yards swung round; and as
brag with.  By heavens!  I'll get a crucible, and into it, and dissolve
braided and woven round the socket of the harpoon; the pole was then driven
brain, if he had ever had one, must have early oozed along into the muscles of
breakers of the
breakers of the milky way.  He added, that he shuddered at the thought of
breath he extinguished the flame.  As in the hurricane that sweeps the plain,
breeze --however reluctantly and gloomily, --than he mechanically went below to
bristling shark-skin apron, about mid-day, Perth was standing between his
brow.  Come along, will ye (merry's the play); a full ship and
bubbling white water; and after that nothing more; whence it was concluded
burglar into his family's heart.  It was the Bottle Conjuror!  Upon the opening
burglar slid into his happy home, and robbed them all of everything.  And
burning in that sulphurous air, like three gigantic wax tapers before an
burst, and all life fled from the smitten hull.  Bad news; she brings bad
bursting hatches; and now, in glad holiday apparel, was joyously, though
busily filing the ivory joist for the leg, which joist is firmly fixed in the
but I make a bandbox for Queequeg, and he wont put his head into it.  Are
but a tossed shuttle-cock to the blast, it is by no means uncommon to see
but as no cask of sufficient lightness could be found, and as in the feverish
but base little Pip, he died a coward; died all a'shiver; --out upon Pip!
but no hand rose to seize it, and the sun having long beat upon this cask
but scorches him, as these old eyes are even now scorched with thy light, O
but snow-caps.  Let me see.  Nail down the lid; caulk the seams; pay over
but suddenly finding his path made plain to him by elbowed lances of fire.
but the pagan harpooneers remained
but the sea that had stove its bottom had caused the loose leather sheath to
but with vigorous pleasure, to the stout ringing of her young-armed old
but you will never pound into me what you were just now saying.  And how long
by hannibal, and by all the successive monarchs of the East --if they still
by the changed character of the withdrawn water, the mariners readily detect
by warp and woof: calms crossed by storms, a storm for every calm.  There is
cachalot, some philosophers of the forecastle have concluded that this
calculate over again; I think I didn't carry a small figure, sir.  Look ye,
call me an empty ship, and outward-bound.  So go thy ways, and I will mine.
called ruin.  He had been an artisan of famed excellence, and with plenty to
can at last resort to their Polar citadels, and diving under the ultimate
can follow, thou must still appear to me, to pilot me still? --Was it not so?
can'st thou scorch a scar.  Well, well; no more.  Thy shrunk voice sounds
can't withstand thee, then, old man.  Not reasoning; not remonstrance; not
candles --that's the good promise we saw.  At that moment Starbuck caught
captain's and officers' staterooms.  Even the cabin table itself had been
captain's pantaloons pockets, and those he reserved to thrust his hands into,
captains in themselves impersonated the whole striking contrast of the scene.
cards into these old hands of mine; swears that I must play them, and no
careful bravery that!  murmured Ahab, as Starbuck disappeared.  What's that
carpenter for a screw-driver, all they had to do was to open that part of
carpenter of the Pequod was singularly efficient in those thousand nameless
carpenter.  And when that functionary appeared before him, he bade him
carpenter; --or would'st thou rather work in clay?  Sir? --Clay?  clay, sir?
carry to each mast, is intended to conduct it into the water.  But as this
carved Roman slave, while that wild cry remained within hearing.  The
cask containing coins of Captain Noah, with copies of the posted placards,
casks with sea-water; which afterwards, at varying intervals, is removed by
casks, but those leaky casks are in a leaky ship; and that's a far worse
census of men now in London, and though at the present day not one horn or
centrally fixed on the nailed doubloon; impatient for the order to point the
century and more, therefore at any one period of time, several distinct
certain canonic teachings, that while some natural enjoyments here shall have
chalking Queequeg's person as he shifted the rule.  Ah!  poor fellow!  he'll
charcoal.  Well, well; I heard Ahab mutter, "Here some one thrusts these
cheerful-looking church, planted in a grove.  But one night, under cover of
chickens, Perth?  they are always flying in thy wake; birds of good omen,
chief
circle the above hinted casualty --remaining, as it did, moodily unaccounted
circle, all waiting to be served; holding boat-spades, pike-heads, harpoons,
civilized; that while a sick, civilized man may be six months convalescing,
clean shaved rods of right-whale bone, and cross-beams of sperm whale ivory,
clearest-grained stuff might be secured.  This done, the carpenter received
clenched fist.  Heading East at this hour in the morning, and the sun
clumsily practicable, was not a thing to be passed over by superstitious
cluster stood on the forecastle, all their eyes gleaming in that pale
coasts; the moot point is, whether Leviathan can long endure so wide a chase,
coat; mayhap, his watch --he's so cursed anxious to get it back.  Who ever
cocked hats; the cocks form gable-end eave-troughs, Flask.  No more
coffin for Queequeg; but they've set me now to turning it into something
coffin knock against the churchyard gate, going in?  Faith, sir, I've--
coffin!  cried Starbuck, starting.  Rather queer, that, I should say, said
coffin, and no more. --Mr. Stubb, Mr. Flask, come forward with me.  He goes
coffin.  Then, if the hull go down, there'll be thirty lively fellows all
coffins and hearses.  We work by the month, or by the job, or by the profit;
coffins?  Thou art as unprincipled as the gods, and as much of a
collecting old beer barrels, to fill 'em up again.  What a leg this is!  It
come aboard, old hearty, come along.  I'll soon take that black from your
command to the steersman (it was, as ever, something about his not steering
commanded to do Queequeg's bidding, whatever it might include.  There was some
commanded to proceed at once to the forging of whatever iron contrivances
company with her, crying and sobbing with their human sort of wail.  But this
compasses --that's all.  Thou hast before now heard of such a thing, I take
conceals a remorseless fang.  These are the times, when in his whale-boat the
concerning Ahab, always had it remained a mystery to some, why it was, that
conductor must descend to considerable depth, that its end may avoid all
confounded cobbling, and then we stash it if we can.  hem!  i'll do the job,
conscience.  But look ye, the only real owner of anything is its commander;
contact with the hull; and as moreover, if kept constantly towing there, it
contemporary and hereditary.  But most humble though he was, and far from
corpusants have mercy on us all, cried Stubb, again.  At the base of the
could not possibly fly his howlings; all comfort, sleep itself, inestimable
course get rheumatic, and have to be doctored ( sneezes) with washes and
course to be changed accordingly.  The yards were hard up; and once more the
coward, a coward!  Tell them he jumped from a whale-boat!  I'd never beat my
crew instantly ran to the braces --though not a sail was left aloft.  For the
crew: Furl the t'gallant-sails and close-reef the top-sails, fore and aft;
cried Ahab; let's have fair play here, though we be the weaker side.  Yet
cried Starbuck, let the Typhoon sing, and strike his harp here in our
cried Starbuck.  The corpusants!  the corpusants!  All the yard-arms were
critical moment, he had just recalled a little duty ashore, which he was
crouching in the bow, sat watching the sharks, that spectrally played round
cruising-ground, the old man's purpose intensified itself.  His firm lips met
crutch-like, antediluvian, wheezing humorousness, not unstreaked now and then
cured.  Nor, at the time, had it failed to enter his monomaniac mind, that all
daft ones now, muttered the old Manxman.  One daft with strength, the other
daft with weakness.  But here's the end of the rotten line --all dripping, too.
dark canoes, and that the fancy of being so laid had much pleased him; for
darker yet to tell, the blacksmith himself did ignorantly conduct this
darkness, and further concealed in a most cunning disguisement, a desperate
dashed to the deck.  Thou poor, proud heaven-gazer and sun's pilot!  yesterday
dashing high up against the reeling ship's high tetering side, stove in the
dawn, was sailing by a cluster of rocky islets; the watch --then headed by
dawn, when he came to the deck; it was then recounted to him by Flask, not
day coffins to clap them in, and yet again life-buoys out of those same
day previous, while three of the stranger's boats were engaged with
day, the Pequod was torn of her canvas, and bare-poled was left to fight a
day, too, gazing far down from his boat's side into that same golden sea,
dead bone upon which he partly stood.  For it had not been very long prior to
dead-reckoning, by log and by line; these shall conduct me, and show me my
deadly harm; and come to deadly harm, my soul swears this ship will, if Ahab
deaf and dumb, spontaneous literal process.  He was a pure manipulator; his
debtor to this blockhead for a bone to stand on!  Cursed be that mortal
deck; but all their eyes upcast.  Aye, aye, men!  cried Ahab.  Look up at
deep did they go; and so ancient, and corroded, and weedy the aspect of the
deeper gloom, Ahab, who had sterned off from the whale, sat intently
defiance.  To neither love nor reverence wilt thou be kind; and e'en for hate
degree the scattered solitaries, yokes, and pods, and schools of other days
delicious grief, and her orphans a truly venerable, legendary sire to dream
deliriously howled Ahab, as the malignant iron scorchingly devoured the
demanded, my men, the thunder turned old Ahab's needles; but out of this
demijohn.  Top-heavy was the ship as a dinnerless student with all Aristotle
descending her side.  A few keen pulls, and his boat-hook soon clinched the
desirable pattern.  Imprimis, fifty feet high in his socks; then, chest
dictating the thing he was now about to do, were certain prudential motives,
did run from him in a terror of dismay.
die it!
die yet, he averred.  They asked him, then, whether to live or die was a
die, or be weakened.  And like circles on the water, which, as they grow
dignity and danger go hand in hand; till you get to be Captain, the higher
diligent tracings-out not belie the obvious deduction.  To trail the
directing the men in the higher hoisting and firmer lashing of the boats.  But
disembowelled, you should have stooped over the hatchway, and peered down
displaced, that it had stake-wise smitten, and all but pierced his groin;
do naturally beget their like.  Yea, more than equally, thought Ahab; since
do; owned a house and garden; embraced a youthful, daughter-like, loving
does it seem any argument in favor
done, he marshalled the planks and his tools, and to work.
done?  Perhaps an hour, sir.  Bungle away at it then, and bring it to me
dost thou, darker half, rock me with a prouder, if a darker faith.  All thy
down a beaver; so.  Halloa!  whew!  there goes my tarpaulin overboard; Lord,
drawing near of Death, which alike levels all, alike impresses all with a
drawings; and it seemed that hereby he was striving, in his rude way, to copy
drawn from it, and then had the iron part placed in the coffin along with one
dreaded symbol of grim death, by a mere hap, made the expressive sign of the
dreamy quietude, when beholding the tranquil
drive us towards home.  Yonder, to windward, all is blackness of doom; but
drop off; and from the keen steel barb there now came a levelled flame of
dropped from the stern, where it always hung obedient to a cunning spring;
drums came from her forecastle; and drawing still nearer, a crowd of her men
dumbest dust.  Old man of oceans!  of all this fiery life of thine, what will
eagerness of what seemed the approaching crisis of the voyage, all hands were
ears.  Another has the toothache: the carpenter out pincers, and clapping
earth, and a mystical treatise on the art of attaining truth; so that
earth, yet suckled by the sea; though hill and valley mothered me, ye
easier to harvest.  Why tell the whole?  The blows of the basement hammer
either case, the needle never again, of itself, recovers the original virtue
elevated quarter-deck, so that the whole rejoicing drama was full before him,
else.  Then tell me; art thou not an arrant, all-grasping, inter-meddling,
elsewhere seen -- mount his dead back in a rolling sea; and finally descend
empire (which was the world's); and yet I owe for the flesh in the tongue I
empty catacombs, and reeled and rolled in the sea like an air-freighted
empty into thee!
encountering the gay Bachelor, whales were seen and four were slain; and one
end.  Petrified by his aspect, and still more shrinking from the fiery dart
ensuing scene, the carpenter continues sneezing at times).  Well, manmaker!
entreaty wilt thou hearken to; all this thou scornest.  Flat obedience to thy
ere thou couldst die on this voyage, two hearses must verily be seen by thee
erect before the lofty tri-pointed trinity of flames.  Oh!  thou clear spirit
error-abounding log?  and in this very Typhoon, did he not swear that he
essentially one with the electricity beheld in heaven; hence it is not to be
evening, somehow to Ahab conveyed a wondrousness unknown before.  He turns
every day grew more and more between; and each blow every day grew fainter
every preparation for death; now that his coffin was proved a good fit,
every side.  Sideways lashed in each of her three basketed tops were two
every soul on her decks were wrapped in a pall.  A moment or two passed, when
every woe unreverenced; his grey head a scorn to flaxen curls!  Death seems
exchanged.  Where was he? --not killed! --not killed!  cried Ahab, closely
exclaimed, --Look ye, for yourselves, if Ahab be not the lord of the level
exclaimed: There is one God that is Lord over the earth, and one Captain
explained the wonder.  Those rocky islands the ship had passed were the resort
extended hand, now took the precise bearing of the sun, and satisfied that
extremity the rope was unstranded, and the separate spread yarns were all
eyeing the transpointed compasses, the old man, with the sharp of his
eyes could persuade such ignorance as theirs, and one after another they
eyes do dimly see it.  Oh, thou foundling fire, thou hermit immemorial, thou
eyes in the deck, or new tree-nails in the side planks, and other
face, saw the Parsee; and hooped round by the gloom of the night they seemed
fainter, expand; so his eyes seemed rounding and rounding, like the rings of
fair one had only been juggling her.  Meanwhile, whatever were his own secret
faith; but see!  no sooner dead, than death whirls round the corpse, and it
faithful, broad, baronial vassal of the sun! --Oh that these too-favoring eyes
fall of eve, the blacksmith's soul responded, Aye, I come!  And so Perth
fangs: the tiger of Bengal crouches in spiced groves of ceaseless verdure.
fatal; all its loadstone virtue being annihilated, so that the before
fatalistic despair that seemed meant for himself --these passed over the mute,
fate reaches all the others that may be in the ship; even were the lowermost
feel the smart of my crushed leg, though it be now so long dissolved; then,
feet through the wrist; no heart at all, brass forehead, and about a
fellow, Starbuck, he said lowly to the mate; then raising his voice to the
felt so kind a thing as this, perhaps he had ne'er been lost!  This seems to
few drops of hartshorn, there is no telling.  But there it was; and there it
fighting for one coffin, a sight not seen very often beneath the sun!  Come
filled it; that the harpooneers had headed the sockets of their irons and
filled them; that indeed everything was filled with sperm, except the
filled with Nantucket soundings.
finally given in; and so it came to pass that every one now knew the shameful
find it in the deep-loaded hull; or how hope to plug it, even if found, in
find it rather hard.  Yes, when a fellow's soaked through, it's hard to be
finger has been laid on the ship; when his mene, mene, Tekel Upharsin has
fire.  So, swinging his seated form to the roll of the ship, and with his
firmament.  Curse thee, thou quadrant!  dashing it to the deck, no longer
firmly secured aloft between the foremast and mainmast, three Long Island
fisherman.  It drags hard; I guess he's holding on.  Jerk him, Tahiti!  Jerk
fishery.  Often, in mild, pleasant weather, for twelve, fifteen, eighteen,
flash of the lightning glancing aloft, to see what additional disaster might
flights, some of which flew close to Ahab.  Are these thy Mother Carey's
flip only foamin'; When he stirs in the spicin', -- Such a funny, sporty,
flood, spout his frothed defiance to the skies.
flood-tide lifted him higher and higher towards his destined heaven.  Not a
flooded, like the Netherlands, to kill off its rats, then the eternal whale
followed by the joy-childlessness of all hell's despair; whereas, some guilty
following him.  Back, lad; I will be with ye again presently.  He goes!  Not
following the flashes, a voice was heard at his side; and almost at the same
footstep at the door, but not turning round to it.  On deck!  Begone!
for a certain period, both before and after the sailing of the Pequod, he
for by Ahab --invested itself with terrors, not entirely underived from the
for form's sake than anything else, regularly putting down upon the customary
for it, independent of those pertaining to the distrusted one in use.
for men.  But the bodings of the crew were destined to receive a most
for prudent, most wise, and economic reasons, the blacksmith's shop was in the
for some moments to catch the precise instant when the sun should gain its
for the most part, they seem a mob of unnecessary duplicates, both
for the peculiarly active pursuits shortly to be anticipated, Perth, the
for things passed, the other all forebodings as to things to come --their two
for those masts are rooted in a hold that is going to be chock a' block with
for, man?  thrusted light is worse than presented pistols.  i thought, sir,
forbearing!  Shall we not understand each other better than hitherto, Captain
forecastle and took Queequeg's measure with great accuracy, regularly
foreshadowing of evil in the future, but as the fulfilment of an evil already
forge and anvil, the latter placed upon an iron-wood log, with one hand
forging the buckle-screw, sir, now.  Right.  It's a partnership; he supplies
former woe; and he too plainly seemed to see, that as the most poisonous
found too large to be easily inserted into its hole: the carpenter claps it
frankly back from the binnacle, and pointing his stretched arm towards it,
from promontory to cape; and if one coast is no longer enlivened with their
from surveying poor Queequeg -- Oh, devilish tantalization of the gods!
from the ships she had met; and these were stowed along the deck, and in the
from the topsail-yard-arms, when most they teter over to a seething sea; but
from these dark planks the coffin was recommended to be made.  No sooner was
full of it.  Hark to it.  Aye, and that's because the lid there's a
full of the sweet things of love and gratitude.  Come!  I feel prouder leading
fun: so the old song says; --( sings.) Oh!  jolly is the gale, And a joker
furnished with several vices, of different sizes, and both of iron and of
furnished, to show that the hunted whale cannot now escape speedy extinction.
furnishing an example of the high, humane abstraction; the Pequod's carpenter
further?  Can it be that in some spiritual sense the coffin is, after all, but
gaffs and pikes to-day.  Look ye here!  jingling the leathern bag, as if it
gamy, jesty, joky, hoky-poky lad, is the Ocean, oh!  Thunder splits the
genealogies
generally speaking, a sick savage is almost half-well again in a day.  So, in
given bid for bid with the wealthiest Praetorians at the auction of the Roman
glass and a bottle in the air.  Hast seen the White Whale?  gritted Ahab in
glassy barriers and walls there, come up among icy fields and floes; and in
gleamed as if they too
glitteringly gazing into the weeping faces of her children; the bellows fell;
globe, yet what shall we say to Harto, the historian of Goa, when he tells
gloom; and as the two ships crossed each other's wakes --one all jubilations
go on a better voyage than this.  Overhearing Starbuck, the panic-stricken
gods again.  hark ye, dost thou not ever sing working about a coffin?  The
golden treasuries, yet did his breath upon them prove but tarnishing.  Oh,
good finish on.  Time, time; if I but only had the time, I could turn him
good luck bore down upon the moody Pequod, the barbarian sound of enormous
good time my Queequeg gained strength; and at length after sitting on the
goodness, and in man all ill, lo you!  see the omniscient gods oblivious of
gradations, and at the last one pause: --through infancy's unconscious spell,
grassy glades!  oh, ever vernal endless landscapes in the soul; in ye,
grave, lingering glances towards the receding Bachelor; but the Bachelor's
great part of the time soliloquizing; but only like an unreasoning wheel,
grey hairs of mine 'tis not worth while disputing, 'specially with a
ground.  Oh, oh!  Yet blindfold, yet will I talk to thee.  Light though thou
gurgling track, pushed her on like giants' palms outspread.  The strong,
had abided for now some sixty years or more.  And this it was, this same
had barrels of beef and bread been given away to make room for the far more
had been tipped by corpusants; while lit up by the preternatural light,
had died wide apart; one, far to windward; one, less distant, to leeward;
had elapsed, did it transpire upon the Pequod's decks.  But be all this as it
had hidden himself away with such Grand-Lama-like exclusiveness; and, for
had the young widow had a
half-articulated wailings of the ghosts of all Herod's murdered Innocents
half-horrible stolidity in him, involving, too, as it appeared, an
half-humorous cries with which the people on deck began to drive the coffin
half-stranded.  Shall I strike it, sir?  Strike nothing; lash it.  If I had
half-stupidly felt the deadly numbness stealing over him, and sought refuge
half-way meeting, interpenetrate, and form one seamless whole.  Nor did such
hammer that knot down, and we've done.  So; next to touching land, lighting
hammer, calking-iron, pitch-pot, and marling-spike!  Let's to it.
hand, the wondrous old man, with his back to the gangway door, was wrinkling
handicrafts which more or less have to do with wood as an auxiliary material.
handle of his wooden vice, the carpenter signs him to clap his jaw in that,
handled so many deadly lances, strange, that I should shake so now.  Loaded?
hanging.  No, Stubb; you may pound that knot there as much as you please,
hard up into the socket; from the lower end the rope was traced half way along
hard which should be soft, and that soft which should be hard.  So we go,
harm can come to the holder of the rod, unless the mast is first struck?
hast here, then, the best and stubbornest stuff we blacksmiths ever work.  I
haughty agony, i read my sire.  leap!  leap up, and lick the sky!  I leap
have been because there was none in his spade, sir.  But the calking mallet is
have befallen the intricate hamper there; while Stubb and Flask were
have left in them some interior compunctions against suicide, does the
have sat before the dense coal fire and watched it all aglow, full of its
have spoiled it. 'Twill hold, old gentleman.  Long heat and wet, have they
have to die now, ejaculated the Long Island sailor.  Going to his
have to meet it, is just across the deck here.  But never mind; it's all in
have vow'd thy vow; say'st all of us are Ahabs.  Great God forbid! -- But is
he caught a terrible chill which lapsed into a fever; and at last, after some
he did not have a common soul in him, he had a subtle something that somehow
he half calmly rose, and as he quitted the cabin, paused for an instant and
he is wont to stand --his stand-point is stove, man!  Now jump overboard, and
he said --Ahab beware of Ahab --there's something there!  Then unconsciously
he spent, in carving the lid with all manner of grotesque figures and
he's left his tambourine behind; --I found it.  Rig-a-dig, dig, dig!  Now,
he's sleeping.  Sleeping?  aye, but still alive, and soon awake again.  I
head, and a small bag of woody earth scraped up in the hold at the foot; and
head, and so expiring --that strange spectacle, beheld of such a placid
heads some other way. -- Oh, thou dark Hindoo half of nature, who of drowned
heard of two pious whale-ships cruising after
heard.  Hast seen the White Whale?  Aye, yesterday.  Have ye seen a
hearses?  Have I not said, old man, that neither hearse nor coffin can be
heart of earth.  Lifted by those eternal swells, you needs must own the
heart of the Japanese cruising ground, the Pequod was soon all astir in the
heart-strings.  Come, let's down.  What's this?  here's velvet shark-skin,
heathenish, coffin-colored old lumber aboard, which, upon a long previous
heavy beating of his heart.  And so it was. --Most miserable!
help and hope of most endangered life.  A life-buoy of a coffin!  Does it go
her course as possible, watching the compass meanwhile, lo!  a good sign!
here's his leg!  Yes, now that I think of it, here's his bedfellow!  has a
here, carpenter; let me feel its grip once.  so, so; it does pinch some.
here.  No, no!  shame upon all cowards --shame upon them!  Let 'em go drown
hidden bodies widely wade through the amazing verdure.  The long-drawn virgin
high noon; and Ahab, seated in the bows of his high-hoisted boat, was about
high rolling waves, but through the tall grass of a rolling prairie: as when
hilarious jig.  Meanwhile, others of the ship's company were tumultuously busy
him Starbuck looked, and lo!  the two compasses pointed East, and the
him off; we haul in no cowards here.  Ho!  there's his arm just breaking
him, and the screw was fast: or if for tweezers, take him up by the legs,
him, poor pagan; where, strange to say, for all the heat of his sweatings,
his brow, and tracing his old courses again.  Who's there?  hearing the
his fatal pride.
his feelings --likewise unmurmuringly acquiesced.  As for the men, though some
his fingers.  He was like one of those unreasoning but still highly useful,
his head and crow!  queequeg dies game! --mind ye that; queequeg dies game! --
his live and dead feet, a sneering triumph that seemed meant for Ahab, and a
his old Mogulship, and see whether the length will be all right; too short,
his own pivot-hole there, he so vehemently wheeled round with an urgent
his perch, when a cry was heard --a cry and a rushing --and looking up, they
his pocket a small vial of sand, and then looking from the ship to the vial,
his quadrant was no more, and recalled his frantic oath about the level log
his spars to any gale?  Has he not dashed his heavenly quadrant?  and in these
his subtile skill, in a matter so wondrous as that of the inverted compasses.
his undeviating wake.  Ha, ha, my ship!  thou mightest well be taken now for
history; but here Stubb takes oaths that he has always been jolly!
hoisted boat, and poising a harpoon, pronounced himself fit for a fight.
holders, so called.  Poor Queequeg!  when the ship was about half
holding a pike-head in the coals, and with the other at his forge's lungs,
hollow tree!  Blind and dumb might well be envied now.  See!  that thing rests
homeward-bound.  How wondrous familiar is a fool!  muttered Ahab; then
hooded their orbs, and his wild face was subdued to an earthly
hoof of them remains in all that region; and though the cause of this
hoops, were hoisted out, till at last the piled decks were hard to get
hovering near by all this while, drew nigh to him where he lay, and with
hull, Stern all!  the White Whale spouts thick blood!
hum; you almost swear that play-wearied children lie sleeping in these
hummed like a harp-string, then eagerly bending over it, and seeing no
humming silence to reign there, though it was hooped round by all the roar of
hunted from the savannas and glades of the middle seas, the whale-bone whales
hunting, since he has a pasture to expatiate in, which is precisely twice as
husband's hammer; whose reverberations, muffled by passing through the floors
idleness in the hold; and, to accelerate the affair, the blacksmith was
if anything, I guess.  Ha!  that's the heel; we are in luck; here he comes,
if he would have him draw the tooth.  Thus, this carpenter was prepared at all
ignorance, have talked in ancient tongues; and that when the mystery is
ignores you, though you dig foundations for cathedrals.  Yet was this
immediately shifting his tone, he cried -- The corpusants have mercy on us
immediately, and at any one of the twenty-four hours, any decided change in
impatient of any toil but what was directly connected with its final end,
in Ahab's front, but with his head bowed away from him; while near by, from
in a leaning, dilapidated barn.  The issue was, the loss of the extremities of
in all my voyagings, seldom have I heard a common oath when God's burning
in his gait, had at an early period of the voyage excited the curiosity of
in his head.  Well was it that the Typhoons did not visit them then.  Now, at
in its conspicuous crotch, so that it projected beyond his whale-boat's bow;
in numerous trades and callings collateral to his own; the carpenter's
in self-complacent testimony of his entire satisfaction.  As this glad ship of
in that Japanese sea, the days in summer are as freshets of effulgences.
in this world but to cut my throat.  And when that's done, ten to one I sing
in which the hated White Whale must even then be swimming.  Launched at length
incredulous concerning the populousness of the more enormous creatures of the
indeed, it seemed small matter for wonder, that for all his pervading, mad
individuality.  He swam the seas before the continents broke water; he once
indulged.  Leaning over in his hammock, Queequeg long regarded the coffin
inexplicable, unimaginable casualty, his ivory limb having been so violently
inflexibly enough); then, the already shaken ivory received such an additional
instant a volley of thunder peals rolled overhead.  Who's there?  Old
instantly lowered in chase.  After a keen sail before the wind, this fourth
insultest the sun!  Science!  Curse thee, thou vain toy; and cursed be all
intently gazing at Ahab's hand, and feeling it.  Ah, now, had poor Pip but
inter-indebtedness which will not do away with ledgers.  I would be free as
intermediate death; here are wonders supernatural, without dying for them.
into Ahab's bent face.  Would'st thou brand me, Perth?  wincing for a moment
into it his canvas bag of clothes, set them in order there.  Many spare hours
into one of his ever-ready vices, and straightway files it smaller.  A lost
into the binnacle, Ahab caught one glimpse of the compasses; his uplifted
into the gloom of the hold, and bitterly sweating all day in that
into the long church-yard grass; her children twice followed her thither;
into the sea.
into the very eye that is even now beholding him; aye, and into the eye that
inuendoes Queequeg hinted a hint concerning his coffin.  A life-buoy of a
involuntarily paused before it a moment.  The cabin lamp --taking long swings
involved but uncertain steering, and much lee-way adown the dim ages.  Now,
is even now equally beholding the objects on the unknown, thither side of
is the whale, A' flourishin' his tail, -- Such a funny, sporty, gamy, jesty,
isles, but that far beyond all visible horizons, their own mild,
it --lift it.  Strange, that I, who have
it all hissing into the cask of water near by, the scalding steam shot up
it almost seemed not only every way seeking to avoid the slightest outward
it at all; it's undignified; it's not my place.  Let tinkers' brats do
it had shrunken, so that it slowly filled, and the parched wood also filled
it into Mr. Starbuck all the time -- queer, sir --queer, queer, very queer.  And
it is, so it is; if we get it.  I was speaking of the oil in the hold,
it speak thoroughly well for thy work, if, when I come to mount this leg
it was humorously added, that the cook had clapped a head on his largest
it was not unlike the custom of his own race, who, after embalming a dead
it!  It has happened before.  Mr. Starbuck, last night's thunder turned our
it.  And can'st thou make it all smooth, again, blacksmith, after such hard
it.  Aye; but never before has it happened to me, sir, said the pale
it.  In compliance with the standing order of his commander -- to report
it; and so the two vessels parted; the crew of the Pequod looking with
it; mark it well; the white flame but lights the way to the White Whale!
it? --wait.  I'll cure myself of this. I'll hold the musket boldly while I
itself.  He would have shot me once, he murmured, yes, there's the very
itself; A better man than I might well pass over in thee what he would
jack-of-all-trades.  But I do not mean anything, sir.  I do as I do.  The
jets, then, be sure, some other and remoter strand has been very recently
jobs.  Lord!  what an affection all old women have for tinkers.  I know an old
joky, hoky-poky lad, is the Ocean, oh!  The scud all a flyin' That's his
keep up my spirits.  And I tell you what it is, Mr. Starbuck, there's no way
kidnapping cannibal ways.  Let faith oust fact; let fancy oust memory; I
kneel and kiss thee; but at thy highest, come as mere supernal power; and
knocked into kindling-wood; and the cabin mess dined off the broad head of
know it, old man; these stubbs will weld together like glue from the melted
know thee, thou clear spirit, and I now know that thy right worship is
knowest not of thyself, oh, thou omnipotent.  There is some unsuffusing thing
knows tornadoes that never swept tame northern lands.  So, too, it is, that in
lady uses her roly-poly old coach-horses.  But Ahab; oh he's a hard driver.
land and on sea, cried Ahab, with a laugh of derision; -- Immortal on land
land of spirits and of wails.  So that, through their zeal for him, they had
land-bird of strange plumage strays on board, and is made a captive: out of
lantern hanging from its top, cast a troubled flickering glare upon the
large as all Asia, both Americas, Europe and Africa, New Holland, and all the
lashed athwartships against the rear of the Try-works.  A belaying pin is
last one must be grown in America.  Aye, aye!  a strange sight that, Parsee:
last revelation, which only an author from the dead could adequately tell.  So
last safe aboard, she crowded all sail --stunsail on stunsail --after the
latitude.  So, so; chisel, file, and sand-paper, now!
launching into the region of the strange Untried; it is but the first
lay Queequeg in his coffin with little but his composed countenance in view.
leak must be further off.  So, it being calm weather, they broke out deeper
leak!  I'm all aleak myself.  Aye!  leaks in leaks!  not only full of leaky
leaped up in that same golden light: -- I am Stubb, and Stubb has his
leaping out of thee!  The javelins cease; open eyes; see, or not?  There burn
learned that all whalemen who died in Nantucket, were laid in those same
least glimpse of the missing keel had been seen.  The story told, the
least, as well as the man at the mast-head could tell anything about it.  In
leathern bag.  While yet a little distance from the forge, moody Ahab paused;
leaving undone; and therefore had changed his mind about dying: he could not
leeward; whereupon, the fourth rigged boat --a reserved one --had been
leg off from the crown of the anchor here, though, so I can pass the rope;
let me charter your ship --I will gladly pay for it, and roundly pay for it
levelled steel, and her progress solely determined by Ahab's level log and
life will dispute its unconditional, unintegral mastery in me.  In the midst
light, the invisible sun was only known by the spread intensity of his place;
lightly held for capstans.  But while now upon so wide a field thus variously
lightly shouldered the coffin and went forward with it, inquiring whether they
lightning has actually struck the vessel, so as to smite down some of the
lightning-rod at all in a storm?  Don't you see, you timber-head, that no
lightning-rod in the storm, and standing close by a mast that hasn't got any
lightning-rods are not always overboard; but are generally made in long
lightning.  At that moment in one of the intervals of profound darkness,
like Pip, that jumped from a whale-boat.  Shame!  shame!  During all this,
like a whale-boat these coffin-canoes were without a keel; though that
like an exploding bomb upon a dazed and sleepy town.  Towards evening of that
like hearth-stone cats they purr against the gunwale; these are the times of
like his own fin-bone.  There's the stuff, flinging the pouch upon the
like sap in a tree.  Yes, our three masts will yet be as three spermaceti
like the lips of a vice; the Delta of his forehead's veins swelled like
like the yarns and strands of a tow-line.  Quick!  I'll blow the fire.  When
like this.  i make a leg for captain ahab, and he wears it like a gentleman;
like to feel something in this slippery world that can hold, man.  What's
line; the Pequod held on her path towards the Equator.  Making so long a
lines run whole, and whirling out: come in broken, and dragging slow.  Ha,
little cabin; but presently the thick plaits of his forehead relaxed, and
little man, you have pretty red hair, but you couldn't get afire now.  Shake
little swelled --of a common pocket knife; but containing, not only blades of
live heart beat against them; and these mysteries were therefore destined in
live, the queenly personality lives in me, and feels her royal rights.  But
living things, exhaled as air, but water now.  Then hail, for ever hail, O
loadstone!  The sun is East, and that compass swears it!  One after another
log-line.  But Ahab can mend all.  Haul in here, Tahitian; reel up, Manxman.
lonely old heads to run off with me.  But heigh-ho!  there are no caps at sea
long tailed coat ought always to be worn in all storms afloat.  The tails
long, ribbed hull, seemed as the three Horatii pirouetting on one sufficient
look deep down and do believe.  And Stubb, fish-like, with sparkling scales,
look ye here; thus I blow out the last fear!  And with one blast of his
look!
look, sir!  Beware the hatchway!  Thank ye, man.  Thy coffin lies handy to
look-outs at the mast-heads of the whale-ships, now penetrating even through
looked so scornful at me!  I'm a sort of strange-thoughted
looking on from the forecastle.  That Parsee smells fire like a fusee; and
looks like a real live leg, filed down to nothing but the core; he'll be
loose coils rapidly straightened out in a long dragging line astern, and
loosening out of the middle of the world.  Haul in, haul in, Tahitian!  These
lost life-buoy was now to be replaced; Starbuck was directed to see to it;
lotions, just like live legs.  There; before I saw it off, now, I must call
lowered by the rolling billows, the towing resistance of the log caused the
lowermost puncheons, that you almost looked next for some mouldy corner-stone
lucifers forward?  Stop, now; didn't you say so?  Well, suppose I did?  What
lunacy, brings heavenly vouchers of all our heavenly homes.  Where learned he
made in fire must properly belong to fire; and so hell's probable.  How the
made the transfer permanent by cutting two notches at its extremities.  This
made up his mind to live, mere sickness could not kill him: nothing but a
madest me, and like a true child of fire, I breathe it back to thee.
magnetic energy, as developed in the mariner's needle, is, as all know,
magnetic steel was of no more use than an old wife's knitting needle.  But in
main-top-sail yard!  Ho, gluepots!  Loftiest trucks were made for wildest
main-top-sail yard, sir.  The band is working loose, and the lee lift is
mainmast, full beneath the doubloon and the flame, the parsee was kneeling
make him the wilful murderer of thirty men and more, if this ship come to any
make them thyself, man.  Here are my razors --the best of steel; here, and make
making there?  Welding an old pike-head, sir; there were seams and dents in
man from Man; a man born in once independent Man, and now unmanned of Man;
man of the crew but gave him up; and, as for Queequeg himself, what he
man, I have no need for them; for I now neither shave, sup, nor pray till
man, said the Parsee, as his eyes lighted up like fire-flies in the gloom,
man, who can tell to what unsounded deeps Starbuck's body this day week may
man.  But as perhaps fifty of these whale-bone whales are harpooned for one
man; forbear!  t'is an ill voyage!  ill begun, ill continued; let me square
manifestation of itself, but within also seemed more than half distrustful of
mariners quickly run to the braces, and would stand there with all their eyes
mark for thunderbolts; so at those last words of ahab's many of the mariners
mark his boat there; where is that stove?  In the stern-sheets, man; where
marks, had written out on his body a complete theory of the heavens and the
mast-head wore long streamers of narrow red bunting at their hats; from the
mate, gloomily.  Here, it must needs be said, that accidents like this have in
mates and harpooneers were dancing with the olive-hued girls who had eloped
matter of his own sovereign will and pleasure.  He answered, certainly.  In a
maul, after repeatedly smiting the upper end of this iron rod, he placed the
may be secured; but out on privileges!  Let them be, sir.  Look aloft!
may roll, like young horses in new morning clover; and for some few fleeting
may; let the unseen, ambiguous synod in the air, or the vindictive princes
me and law. --Aye, aye, 'tis so. --Is heaven a murderer
me in the wide-slaughtering Typhoon, and the hushed burial of its after calm.
me measure, sir.  Measured for a leg!  good.  Well, it's not the first time.
me, sir, as a man-rope; something that weak souls may hold by.  Oh, sir, let
mechanical emergencies continually recurring in a large ship, upon a three
medicine!
men fly the neighborhood of some lone, gigantic elm, whose very height and
men in the sea.  below in his hammock, ahab did not hear of this till grey
men never heeding their gaze for the lively revelry they were in.  And as
mentioned Leviathans, they have two firm fortresses, which, in all human
mere shinbone --why it's easy as making hop-poles; only I should like to put a
middle, over one of the compass-cards.  At first, the steel went round and
middle.  He's always under the Line--fiery hot, I tell ye!  He's looking this
middle.  Seems to me some sort of Equator cuts yon old man, too, right in his
midnight waves, which gently chafed the whale's broad flank, like soft surf
midnight, on the road running between two country towns, the blacksmith
might almost say, that this strange uncompromisedness in him involved a sort
might be needed.
mighty Pilot!  thou tellest me truly
milky-ways of coral isles, and low-lying, endless, unknown Archipelagoes, and
mind.  We workers in woods make bridal-bedsteads and card-tables, as well as
mind; catch the turn there, and pass it.  Seems to me we are lashing down
mine beat against it; blood against fire!  So.
mine once was; so, now, here is only one distinct leg to the eye,
miscellaneous matters more directly pertaining to his special business; he
mishap was at the bottom of his temporary recluseness.  And not only this, but
missing boat; kindling a fire in her try-pots for a beacon; and every
modelled after the Thames Tunnel; then, legs with roots to 'em, to stay in
moment all the aghast mate's thoughts seemed theirs; they raised a half
moments, feel the cool dew of the life immortal on them.  Would to God these
monkey-jackets and tarpaulins for me; I must mount a swallow-tail, and drive
monopolizing, heathenish old scamp, to be one day making legs, and the next
moons of Saturn, and take high abstracted man alone; and he seems a wonder,
more recondite Nantucketers.  Whether owing to the almost omniscient
more than one case occurred to ships in violent storms.  The
more?  in what rapt ether sails the world, of which the weariest will
morning watch, when the day was just breaking, and taking his hand, said
motionless Parsee's face.  Unobserved he rose and glided away; while,
mounted on them, and passing additional lashings over the anchors there
mouth, stood up in his boat; ere he could hopefully hail, Ahab's voice was
much by reason or by instinct, or simply because he had been tutored to it,
much marvelled at, that such things should be.  In instances where the
much the same, Carpenter.  Hast thou ever helped carry a bier, and heard the
musket that he pointed at me; --that one with the studded stock; let me touch
muskets, there strangely evolved an evil thought; but so blent with its
must not only face all the rage of the living whale, but --as we have
must up Burtons and break out.  Up Burtons and break out?  Now that we are
must, oh, you must, and you shall do this thing.  His son!  cried Stubb,
mutinous cry.  But dashing the rattling lightning links to the deck, and
muttered: Foolish toy!  babies' plaything of haughty Admirals, and
myself down to one small, compendious vertebra.  So.  Carpenter ( resuming
mystic significance, and, in some men, an archangelic grandeur; so do their
near; and every day when Ahab, coming from his cabin, cast his eyes aloft,
nearing Japan; heave-to here for a week to tinker a parcel of old hoops?
nearly sixty, had postponedly encountered that thing in sorrow's technicals
necessitated to leave that boat to its fate till near midnight, but, for the
negroes, with glittering fiddle-bows of whale ivory, were presiding over the
neutral or good accompaniments that for the instant he hardly knew it for
never weary?  Where is the foundling's father hidden?  Our souls are like
nevertheless, seemed growing fuller and fuller; they became of a strange
news, muttered the old Manxman.  But ere her commander, who, with trumpet to
nightfall; but the windward one could not be reached till morning; and the
no children born to them for the other world, but, on the contrary, shall be
no means adequate; though, indeed, as touching all Ahab's deeper part, every
no steady unretracing progress in this life; we do not advance through fixed
no; I must have a lantern.  Ho, ho!  That's it, hey?  Here are two, sir; one
none of thine own.  What!  how can you see better of a dark night than
nor was it without extreme difficulty that the agonizing wound was entirely
not a brave man; never said i was a brave man; I am a coward; and I sing to
not be his.  Ha!  is he muttering in his sleep?  Yes, just there, --in there,
not be invisibly and uninterpenetratingly standing precisely where thou now
not for us to ask the why and wherefore of our work, unless it be too
not how came ye, hence callest thyself unbegotten; certainly knowest not thy
not know that the colic is a noisy malady.  Oh, take medicine, take
not shot from the crown of his head, as if God had meant him to gaze on his
not take it.  The lightning flashes through my skull; mine eye-balls ache and
not thou the leg-maker?  Look, did not this stump come from thy shop?  I
notice the whirling velocity with which they revolved upon the cards; it is a
now a most meaning thing, that that old Greek, Prometheus, who made men, they
now almost incessantly invoked by the headsmen, and harpooneers, and bowsmen
now hammers at us to stave us, we can turn it into a fair wind that will
now listen.  What's the mighty difference between holding a mast's
now, tenderly.  I'll have me --let's see --how many in the ship's company, all
now?  But if the currents carry ye to those sweet Antilles where the beaches
observed by Ahab had unaccountably escaped every one else; but its very
ocean's immeasureable burning-glass.  The sky looks lacquered; clouds there
of
of a church!  What's here?  Life buoy, sir.  Mr. Starbuck's orders.  Oh,
of clay reward for Pip; five feet high-- looks cowardly --quickest known by
of clear fire, whom on these seas I as Persian once did worship, till in the
of creation yielding up the live bodies of all the men, women, and children
of death.  How he wasted and wasted away in those few long-lingering days,
of great numbers of seals, and some young seals that had lost their dams,
of his readiness in ordinary duties: --repairing stove boats, sprung spars,
of in their after years; and all of them a care-killing competency.  But
of it taken to the windlass, and
of line revolved, so stood with the angular log hanging downwards, till Ahab
of mixed shades and shadows, drowned dreams, somnambulisms, reveries; all
of my skull -- that is all wrinkles!  But, away with child's play; no more
of my youth was answered; that serene ocean rolled eastwards from me a
of poor Queequeg, as he quietly lay in his swaying hammock, and the rolling
of rum.  Um, um, um!
of that fatal cork, forth flew the fiend, and shrivelled up his home.  Now,
of the calm, and in the teeth of the tempest; they will imprecate curses
of the gradual extinction of the Sperm Whale, for example, that in former
of the grief of his life's drama.  He was an old man, who, at the age of
of the mate, and his fiery cheeks, you would have almost thought that he had
of the paddles of his boat.  All by his own request, also, biscuits were
of the personified impersonal, a personality stands here.  Though but a
of the rigging, and more or less impeding the vessel's way in the water;
of the steel, or merely intended to augment the awe of the crew, is uncertain
of them by Ahab.  It was far down the afternoon; and when all the spearings of
of them lowly rumbled, their fear of Ahab was greater than their fear of
of these high mortal miseries, carries us at last among the sourceless
of unintelligence; for in his numerous trades, he did not seem to work so
off in a huff.  The whole he can endure; at the parts he baulks.  Now I don't
officer of his ship.  However it was, his orders were executed; and the
officer's skewered feather, and trailing behind like his sash.  Why don't ye
often happens.  There was some apprehension, but no positive alarm, as yet.
oil of forty fish.  Whereas, in the days of the old Canadian and Indian hunters
old Manxman, who was intently eyeing both him and the line, made bold to
old Perth now come and rivet these two hands together; the black one with the
old body like me, should never undertake to wade out into deep waters with
old man's bolted door, --a thin one, with fixed blinds inserted, in place of
old reelman to stagger strangely.  Hold hard!  Snap!  the overstrained line
on deck is the most satisfactory.  I say, just wring out my jacket skirts,
on the anvil, Perth passing to him the glowing rods, one after the other,
on the sea; the first not made by mortal hands; and the visible wood of the
on the voyage, in order that a careful selection of the stoutest,
on two line-tubs, full of tow-lines.  A most malicious wag, that fellow.
one ahead; one astern.  These last three were brought alongside ere
one complete rod, received its final heat; and as perth, to temper it, plunged
one grain of sand will be to-morrow noon; and yet with thy impotence thou
one hand upon his bench bids him be seated there; but the poor fellow
one in the precisely opposite direction --the ship had not only been
one inserted into the kelson.  Deliberately standing before the binnacle, and
one missing whale-boat in the height of the whaling season?  See, Flask, only
one place; then, arms three
one ship went cheerily before the breeze, the other stubbornly fought against
one to him in the grey
one volume; but whose mysteries not even himself could read, though his own
one?  aye, blacksmith, it is the one; aye, man, it is unsmoothable; for
only the more affected some of them, because most mariners cherish a very
open-and-shut carpenter, was, after all, no mere machine of an automaton.  If
opinion, than all the crews in ten thousand ships now sailing the seas.  Why,
or by any intermixture of all these, even or uneven; but merely by a kind of
or four years' voyage, in uncivilized and far-distant seas.  For not to speak
or it's somebody else, that's certain.  Ahab ( advancing). (During the
or some dams that had lost their cubs, must have risen nigh the ship and kept
orchard twig.  In various enchanted attitudes, like the standing, or
orders to have the leg completed that night; and to provide all the fittings
other good-humoredly.  Come aboard!  Thou are too damned jolly.  Sail on.
other man aloft on the look-out.  But though when she had thus sailed a
other vessels had gone entire months without securing a single fish.  Not only
other, its numerous cabalistical contrivances, he pondered again, and
others."  And damn me, Ahab, but thou actest right; live in the game, and
out abroad among the crew, the old man with a rigid laugh exclaimed, I have
out as neat a leg now as ever ( sneezes) scraped to a lady in a parlor.  Those
out bone legs by the cord.  Halloa, there, you Smut!  bear a hand there with
out one Pip, who's now been missing long: I think he's in those far
outside, or thrown down into the sea, as occasion may require.  The rods!
outwards?  No, but put a sky-light on top of his head to illuminate inwards.
outyell the Typhoons.  What cares Ahab?  Owners, owners?  Thou art always
over the sea some four or five miles apart, on parallel lines, and so sweeping
over the ship's stern.  Were ever such things done before with a coffin?  Some
overladen brooks; in his very sleep, his ringing cry ran through the vaulted
overspread by tens of thousands the prairies of Illinois and Missouri, and
own flat commands, this is all thou breathest.  Aye, and say'st the men
pale, forked fire.  As the silent harpoon burned there like a serpent's
pall-bearers.  Ha!  Such a sight we shall not soon see.  Believe it or not,
pants beneath it; and would not willingly remember, that this velvet paw but
parchment-like poke or stomach skin of the black fish, gave forth a loud roar
parts of the twisted tattooing on his body.  And this tattooing, had been the
passage through such unfrequented waters, descrying no ships, and ere long,
passed silently, and bowing over his head towards the fire, seemed invoking
passionlessness.  At length the desired observation was taken; and with his
paternity lies in their grave, and we must there to learn it.  And that same
pauselessly active in uncounted modes, still eternally holds its peace, and
peculiar ground; that man was swallowed up in the deep.  But few, perhaps,
pencil upon his ivory leg, Ahab soon calculated what his latitude must be at
perhaps vain to surmise exactly why it was, that as respecting Starbuck,
perilous fluid into the soil; so the kindred rod which at sea some ships
philosophies from thee!  Some unknown conduits from the unknown worlds must
phosphorescence, like a far away constellation of stars.  Relieved against
pilot.  And when thou art so gone before --if that ever befall --then ere I
pitch-pot.  Away!  What possesses thee to this?  Make a life-buoy of the
pitched down her bowsprit, he turned to eye the bright sun's rays produced
piteous sound was heard.  Oh, Pip!  thy wretched laugh, thy idle but
place on the sea.  Aye, lighting from the boat to the deck, thus I
place with it; that is, carpenter, my old lost leg; the flesh and blood one,
place, some merchantmen, and many whalemen, especially when cruising,
place, when Ahab, who had been intently watching for this result, stepped
placed over him.  The head part turned over with a leather hinge, and there
placed the death-tube in its rack, and left the place.  He's too sound
plain of unimaginable, taking terrors, and wonderful, new-life adventures;
plaintiveness, such inwreathing orisons curled up in that rosy air, that it
planted by the recentest race of men, and lave the faded but still gorgeous
plausible confirmation in the fate of one of their number that morning.  At
plight than the Pequod's, man.  Yet I don't stop to plug my leak; for who can
pods, were encountered much oftener than at present, and, in consequence,
point at best; whencesoe'er I came; wheresoe'er I go; yet while I earthly
points, and alike indifferent and without respect in all.  Teeth he
policy, just as though it were loaded with powder barrels aft and boxes of
positive havoc has already very seriously diminished their battalions.  But
possessed the privilege of a less banned approach to him; to that timid
post.  Are they overboard?  drop them over, fore and aft.  Quick!  Avast!
posterity of Joy.  For, not to hint of this: that it is an inference from
prating to me, Starbuck, about those miserly owners, as if the owners were my
precise meridian.  Meantime while his whole attention was absorbed, the Parsee
presaged.  They declared that now they knew the reason of those wild shrieks
present human population of the globe.  Wherefore, for all these things, we
present matter of his leg, he took plain practical procedures; --he called the
presumed great longevity of whales, their probably attaining the age of a
primogenitures of the gods; so that, in the face of all the glad, hay-making
probability, will for ever remain impregnable.  And as upon the invasion of
probed, it turns out always that in their wholly forgotten childhood those
professor in Queen Nature's granite-founded College; but methinks he's too
progression every hour.  It had been thus with the Pequod.  The wooden reel
progressive progeny of griefs beyond the grave; not at all to hint of this,
promising an event should so soon have falsified the evil portents preceding
prone upon the ground, and insensible; by some unknown, and seemingly
properly, in set way, have been disclosed before.  With many other particulars
prudential policy which, under the circumstance, imperiously forbade the
pudding-heads should never grant premises. --How long before this leg is
pulling, or sailing, or paddling after the whales, or for an interlude of
punctures were made in the heathen flesh, and the White Whale's barbs were
pursuit being the ancient and outbranching trunk of all those numerous
quadrant, the thunder turns the needles, and now the mad sea parts the
quarter of an acre of fine brains; and let me see --shall I order eyes to see
quarter-deck!  The greater idiot ever scolds the lesser, muttered Ahab,
queens, reigned over everything.  The sea was as a crucible of molten gold,
queer; he's queer, says Stubb; he's queer--queer, queer; and keeps dinning
quickly enough resent in a younger man; aye!  and in a happier, Captain
ran shuddering through the air.  Started from his slumbers, Ahab, face to
rays moved on in stacks.  Emblazonings, as of crowned Babylonian kings and
real stature, and seemed the black cloud from which the thunder had come.
really received the blaze of the levelled tube.  But, mastering his emotion,
really so, sir?  It is, man.  Look, put thy live leg here in the place where
reason why the grave-digger made music must
reason would leave me on the long intolerable voyage.  What, then, remains?
received a half-splintering shock.  And when after gaining his own deck, and
recklessness, Ahab did at times give careful heed to the condition of that
recognized by ahab for a nantucketer he knew.  But no formal salutation was
reefed, and a storm-trysail was set further aft; so that the ship soon went
reelingly hurled to the deck by its spasmodic motions, even though preventer
reflection in the vacant pupils of thy eyes.  Oh God!  that man should be a
reforming the shape of clumsy-bladed oars, inserting bull's
regular semi-weekly duty to conduct a hose into the hold, and drench the
replaced in his hammock.  But ere this was done, Pip, who had been slily
reply.  No; only heard of him; but don't believe in him at all, said the
representing the long eastern coasts of the Japanese islands -- Niphon,
reptile of the marsh perpetuates his kind as inevitably as the sweetest
restlessness.  To any meditative Magian rover, this serene Pacific, once
returning the gun to the rack, he went to the deck.  Thou art but too good a
revealing only the tops of her masts, seems struggling forward, not though
revelation partook more of significant darkness than of explanatory light.
reversed needles there, and horizontally suspended the sail-needle by its
rigging, with one nostril he unthinkingly snuffed the sugary musk from the
rigging; but if thou art a brave man thou wilt hold thy peace.  But I am
right hand pressed hard upon them.] I own thy speechless, placeless power;
right side, fortune's favorites sail close by us, we, though all adroop
riots.  Forward, there!  Heave the log!  Two seamen came.  The golden-hued
rise) was a wilderness and a virgin, the same number of moccasined men, for
rods for its shank; then wind, and twist, and hammer these twelve together
rolled in long slow billows of mighty bulk, and striving in the Pequod's
ropes and hawsers; chained down to ring-bolts on this cabin floor; he would
round, quivering and vibrating at either end; but at last it settled to its
rover softly feels a certain filial, confident, land-like feeling towards the
rulers, nail-filers, counter-sinkers.  So, if his superiors wanted to use the
sacramental act so burned by thee, that to this hour I bear the scar; I now
sagged down in one long festoon; the tugging log was gone.  I crush the
said I not so?  Nor was it wrung from me; nor do I now drop these links.
said: Thou hast outraged, not insulted me, Sir; but for that I ask thee not
said; and with fascinated eyes they awaited whatever magic might follow.  But
sailor takes a fancy to wear shark-bone ear-rings: the carpenter drills his
sailors, without some shudderings and evil portents.  Men, said he,
sails fill out.  So seemed it with the Pequod.  For next day after
sails; the whole world boomed before the wind.  Muffled in the full morning
salutation to the possibilities of the immense Remote, the Wild, the Watery,
same perilous seas, gropes he not his way by mere dead reckoning of the
same precious fluid; and nailed to her main truck was a brazen lamp.  As was
same waves wash the moles of the new-built Californian towns, but yesterday
saw a falling phantom in the air; and looking down, a little tossed heap of
saw the crushed copper sight-tubes of the quadrant he had the day before
saw the sun's rearward place, and how the same yellow rays were blending with
say, should have been a blacksmith, and animated them with fire; for what's
say, why dost thou not go mad?  How can'st thou endure without being mad?  Do
scene.  At last, when the ship drew near to the outskirts, as it were, of
scepticism, then disbelief, resting at last in manhood's pondering repose of
scholars.  So, to my fond faith, poor Pip, in this strange sweetness of his
screwed leg of his table, and with a long pruning-hook of a jack-knife in his
sea roared and split with the thunder, and blazed with the lightning, that
sea seemed gently rocking him to his final rest, and the ocean's invisible
sea!  But suddenly reined back by some counter thought, he hurried towards
sea, freighted with these vesper hymns.  Soothed again, but only soothed to
sea, in whose eternal tossings the wild fowl finds his only rest.  Born of
sea-coal ashes --mind ye that, Mr. Starbuck --sea-coal, not your common
sea-going ship carpenters, and more especially those belonging to whaling
sea; that he regards it as so much flowery earth; and the distant ship
seam like this, blacksmith, sweeping one hand across his ribbed brow;;if
seductive god, bowing your head to Pan.  But few thoughts of Pan stirred
see how pale he looks --pale in the very buttons of his eyes --look --it wasn't
seemed thereby bringing two remote associations together, for that vial was
seems but uncertain twilight to me.  Will ye never have done, Carpenter, with
seen; though she then paused to lower her spare boats to pull all around her;
semi-intelligent faces, seen peeringly uprising from the water alongside.  In
senate of the dead.  Captain Peleg's bruited reason for this thing appeared by
sensible, that's a fact.  And I am about drenched with this spray.  Never
several times, the mate still holding the rod as before.  Then going through
ship Ahab sails in, that ship should pay something extra on its insurance
ship's prow for the equator.  In good time the order came.  It was hard upon
ship's stern unprovided with a buoy, when by certain strange signs and
ship, the Rachel, was descried, bearing directly down upon the Pequod, all her
ships, But he only smacks his lips, A tastin' of this flip, -- Such a funny,
shoes of racing horses.  Horse-shoe stubbs, sir?  Why, Captain Ahab, thou
shook their iron manes and scowled with their thunder-clotted brows upon the
should see these too-favoring sights.  Look!  here, far water-locked; beyond
showed the disabled masts fluttering here and there with
sick man was replaced in his hammock.  But now that he had apparently made
sickness, a wondrous testimony to that immortal health in him which could not
side of this waning savage, and saw as strange things in his face, as any
sidelong-rushing sea.  The Manxman took the reel, and holding it high up, by
sideways impelled by unvarying trade winds, over waves monotonously mild;
sieve.  Bad work, bad work!  Mr. Starbuck, said Stubb, regarding the wreck,
sight of Stubb's face slowly beginning to glimmer into sight.  Glancing
sight that hardly any one can behold without some sort of unwonted emotion.
silence, Ahab stood apart; and every time the tetering ship loweringly
sing away, if thou must!  I don't half understand ye: what's in the wind?
sink, with all the crew!  Great God, where art thou?  Shall I?  shall I? --The
sir, said the frightened steersman.  Thou liest!  smiting him with his
sir.  And I was not speaking or thinking of that at all.  Begone!  Let it
sir; how that a dismasted man never entirely loses the feeling of his old
sir; ship's-crier; ding, dong, ding!  Pip!  Pip!  Pip!  One hundred pounds
sites of populous river-capitals, where now the polite broker sells you land
sixty or seventy minutes calmly awaiting their uprising; though with but
skirts of Asiatic lands, older than Abraham; while all between float
sky-sail poles, I'd sway them up now.  Sir? --in God's name! --sir?  Well.
slate the course steered by the ship, as well as the presumed average rate of
slender links, so as to be the more readily hauled up into the chains
slightest symptom of open disaffection, however transient, in the important
slipping backward on the deck, his uplifted eyes caught the flames; and
slumberers in their beds; the ever-rolling waves but made so by their
slunk away.  In his fiery eyes of scorn and triumph, you then saw Ahab in all
small success for their pains.  At such times, under an abated sun; afloat
smells of it himself, like a hot musket's powder-pan.  At last the shank, in
snatching the burning harpoon, Ahab waved it like a torch among them;
so -- the coffin, I mean.  Dost thou hear me?  Rig it.  And shall I nail down
so long afloat this voyage, the log and line had but very seldom been in use.
so strangely respectful and cautious that
so.  But Ahab is lord over the level load-stone
so.  For nothing was this man more remarkable, than for a certain impersonal
socket of the iron.  A coil of new tow-line was then unwound, and some fathoms
soft sobbings, took him by the hand; in the other, holding his tambourine.
softness of lustre; and mildly but deeply looked out at you there from his
solely hung the responsibilities of some other family, and left the worse
solemn; bowing over still further his chronically broken back, he toiled
soliloquized Starbuck suddenly, heedless of Stubb's question.  The gale that
solitudes, in some glad May-time, when the flowers of the woods are plucked.
some curse or some blessing on the toil.  But, as Ahab looked up, he slid
some idea of, by imagining all the grave-yards, cemeteries, and family vaults
some moments stood, or sat, or leaned all transfixedly listening, like the
some small strange motions with it --whether indispensable to the magnetizing
some small violence to his own person.  He had lighted with such energy upon a
something vile to the death-devouring sharks.  No: he desired a canoe like
sometimes go aloft in a transition state), whether it was thus with the man,
sometimes, they say; but that's only haphazard-like.  Then, a short, little
somewhat vain-gloriously, sailing round among the widely-separated ships on
songster of the grove; so, equally with every felicity, all miserable events
soot flies!  This must be the remainder the Greek made the Africans of.
soothing scenes, however temporary, fail of at least as temporary an effect on
sorts lying about the bench.  Forward, the red flame of the forge is seen,
sounding-board; and what in all things makes the sounding-board is this
spar, but it will be still pricking him at times.  May I humbly ask if it be
spars and rigging, the effect upon the needle has at times been still more
spars thickly clustering with men.  At the time the Pequod was making good
speak.  Sir, I mistrust it; this line looks far gone, long heat and wet
speak.  The yet levelled musket shook like a drunkard's arm against the panel;
speaking to, I should like to know?  Shall I keep standing here? ( aside).
spectacle observable in all sperm whales dying --the turning sunwards of the
speed through the water; but as the broad-winged windward stranger shot nigh
sperm-oil, d'ye see; and so, all that sperm will work up into the masts,
spirits.  Now, as it shortly turned out, what made this incident of the
spoiled thee?  Thou seem'st to hold.  Or, truer perhaps, life holds thee; not
sporty, gamy, jesty, joky, hoky-poky lad, is the Ocean, oh!  Avast Stubb,
standest; aye, and standing there in thy spite?  In thy most solitary hours,
standing on this to-morrow; he'll be taking altitudes on it.  Halloa!  I
stars to be painted upon the blade of his every oar; screwing each oar in his
startled by the unfamiliar spectacle.  Furthermore: concerning these last
steadily turning upon the crew, as the mate handed him the things he had
stealthily, and half sideways looking, he placed the loaded musket's end
steed.  Standing between the knight-heads, Starbuck watched the Pequod's
steel shoulder-blades; there's a pedlar aboard with a crushing pack.  Sir?
stepping, or running skeletons in Herculaneum, others remained rooted to the
stern, a whale-boat was suspended, bottom down; and hanging captive from the
stick of whale's jaw-bone for a wife!  And this is his leg; he'll stand on
still retained it on deck, fast lashed to ringbolts by the foremast; being
stolidity as it were; impersonal, I say; for it so shaded off into the
stolidity discernible in the whole visible world; which while
storms, the Typhoon.  It will sometimes burst from out that cloudless sky,
strandings, ahab exclaimed, good!  and now for the seizings.  At one
stranger Captain immediately went on to reveal his object in boarding the
strength but render it so much the more unsafe, because so much the more a
strenuous exertions of Starbuck and Stubb --one engaged forward and the other
stretched to a great tension.  Pressing his foot upon it, till the rope
stretching, yawned a little bit, and then springing into the head of his
strike that?  Oh, none but cowards send down their brain-trucks in tempest
string of twisted oakum slowly unwinding from a large roll of it placed in the
subservient.  Where wert thou born?  In the little rocky Isle of Man, sir.
substance, said, that the cause of his sudden convalescence was this; --at a
subterraneous confinement, resolutely manhandle the clumsiest casks and see
sudden, now; but squalls come sudden in hot latitudes.  I've heard that the
suddenly leaped to his feet, threw out arms and legs, gave himself a good
suffered to drag a whole ship's company down to doom with him? --Yes, it would
suffering man; and man, though idiotic, and knowing not what he does, yet
sufficient distance to gain the presumed place of the absent ones when last
suggested to Ahab that wild exclamation of his, when one morning turning away
summer-cool weather that now reigned in these latitudes, and in preparation
sun and whale both stilly died together; then, such a sweetness and such
sun!  Level by nature to this earth's horizon are the glances of man's eyes;
sun-rise this man went from his hammock to his mast-head at the fore; and
suns, and soft-cymballing, round harvest-moons, we must needs give in to
superior, who'll ne'er confess.  What's that?  There now's a patched
superstitious feeling about seals, arising not only from their peculiar tones
superstitious old carpenters, now, would be tied up in the rigging, ere they
supplied with all the studs and joists of jaw-ivory (Sperm Whale) which had
supposing we are loaded with powder barrels aft and lucifers forward; how
surrounding infinite of things, that it seemed one with the general
survive there in great numbers, much more may the great whale outlast all
swam over the site of the Tuileries, and Windsor Castle, and the Kremlin.  In
swashing sea heaved up under his own little craft, so that its gunwale
swearing to transfix with it the first sailor that but cast loose a rope's
tackles had been attached to it --for they were slack -- because some play to
take ye good heed of that; Queequeg dies game!  I say; game, game, game!
taken this old blacksmith to thyself ere his full ruin came upon him, then
takes me for the hunch-backed skipper of some coasting smack.  Send down my
taking his wonted daily obervation of the sun to determine his latitude.  Now,
tall, heron-built captains; the water chucks you under the chin pretty quick,
tambourine over base Pip, and hail him General, if he were once more dying
tapering down that way, serve to carry off the water, d'ye see.  Same with
temperate climes.  And there seems no reason to doubt that if these elephants,
than are here.  come, then, to my cabin.  Lo!  ye believers in gods all
than the last; the wife sat frozen at the window, with tearless eyes,
than useless old man standing, till the hideous rot of life should make him
that I shall yet slay Moby Dick and survive it.  Take another pledge, old
that accursed fish. --The very tube he pointed at me! --the very one; this one
that accursed sound?  I go below; let me not see that thing here when I return
that black midnight sending those gigantic moles into the daylight above.  So
that bubblingly leaps with light and heat.  Long maintaining an enchanted
that ferule and buckle-screw; I'll be ready for them presently.  Lucky now
that he held, the men fell back in dismay, and Ahab again spoke: -- All
that in those regions elephants are numerous as droves of cattle in the
that is lord over the Pequod. --On deck!  For an instant in the flashing eyes
that one interval, sought speechless refuge, as it were, among the marble
that precise instant.  Then falling into a moment's revery, he again looked
that sort.  Now, there is this noteworthy difference between savage and
that still remains indifferent.  Oh, thou clear spirit, of thy fire thou
that the casks last struck into the hold were perfectly sound, and that the
that the stricken whale must have indefinitely run away with his pursuers, as
that this old carpenter had been a life-long wanderer, whose much rolling, to
that we call lives and souls, lie dreaming, dreaming, still; tossing like
that while in Nantucket he had chanced to see certain little canoes of dark
that you spoke to carpenter.  Carpenter?  why that's --but no; --a very tidy,
that!  Ding, dong, ding!  Who's seen Pip the coward?  There can be no hearts
that's the reason I never would work for lonely widow old women ashore, when
that, but there? --Hark!  he speaks again: but more wildly now.  Form two
that, if need were, could be statistically stated.  Nor, considered aright,
that; I want it of the true death-temper.  Ahoy, there!  Tashtego, Queequeg,
the Captain's sons among the number of the missing boat's crew; but among the
the Equatorial fishing-ground, and in the deep darkness that goes before the
the Parsee; and with fixed upward eye, and high-flung right arm, he stood
the Pequod's sailing from Nantucket, that he had been found one night lying
the White Whale?  For the white fiend!  But now for the barbs; thou must
the affairs of the deck, --Starbuck had no sooner trimmed the yards to the
the after bulwarks.  Rains and spray had damped it; the sun and wind had
the anguish of that then present suffering was but the direct issue of a
the arched and overhanging rigging, where they had just been engaged securing
the barbs sharp as the needle-sleet of the Icy Sea.  For a moment, the old
the beginning at the end.  It's the old woman's tricks to be giving cobbling
the carpenter apprised of the order, than taking his rule, he forthwith with
the coat --it must have been the-- My boy, my own boy is among them.  For
the conclusion; not a cobbler's job, that's at an end in the middle, and at
the deck here.  Thou know'st what to say.
the deck in rolling reveries.  But chancing to slip with his ivory heel, he
the devil could the lucifers get afire in this drenching spray here?  Why, my
the distance he saw the diminished dotted boat; and then a swift gleam of
the elements.  The loaded muskets in the rack were shiningly revealed, as
the end to moulder away with the living parchment whereon they were inscribed,
the flames!  Oh, thou magnanimous!  now do I glory in my genealogy.  But thou
the forecastle, till Ahab, troubledly pacing the deck, shouted out -- To the
the ghostly light, the gigantic jet negro, Daggoo, loomed up to thrice his
the ground, previous to pointing her prow for home.  The three men at her
the heavens yet hate thee, that thou can'st not go mad? --What wert thou
the helm, huskily demanding how the ship was heading.  East-sou-east,
the hold again, after concluding his contributory work for Ahab's leg, but
the last men in a flooded world.  I have dreamed it again, said he.  Of the
the last one.  Work that over again, Perth.  This done, Perth was about to
the lid, sir?  moving his hand as with a hammer.  aye.  And shall I caulk
the mariners.  And to the importunity of their persisted questionings he had
the mizen
the moaning in squadrons over Asphaltites of unforgiven ghosts of Gomorrah,
the muscle part.  He makes a fierce red flame there!  Aye, sir; he must have
the needles in the compasses, at intervals, go round and round.  It was thus
the needles were exactly inverted, shouted out his orders for the ship's
the old Manx sailor standing behind them; I heard; all of ye heard their
the only desirable sequel for a career like this; but Death is only a
the oriental archipelagoes spread before him; and another separate one
the other consciously inhaled the salt breath of the new found sea; that sea
the other side now.  I don't like this cobbling sort of business --I don't like
the pole's length, and firmly secured so, with intertwistings of twine.
the projecting handle-ends of the spindle, round which the spool
the rags which the first fury of the tempest had left for its after sport.
the rods!  cried Starbuck to the crew, suddenly admonished to vigilance by
the sail-maker's needles.  Quick!  Accessory, perhaps, to the impulse
the sailors had actually caulked and pitched their chests, and filled them;
the same number of months, mounted on horse instead of sailing in ships,
the same with pitch; batten them down tight, and hang it with the snap-spring
the sea, under certain circumstances, seals have more than once been mistaken
the sea-chariot of the sun.  Ho, ho!  all ye nations before my prow, I bring
the seams, sir?  moving his hand as with a caulking-iron.  Aye.  And shall
the ship half-wheeled
the ship's pumps.  Hereby the casks are sought to be kept damply tight; while
the sights and the sounds that came bearing down before the wind, some few
the slumbering crew arose from the boat's bottom, and ere noon the dead whale
the stranger captain himself, having stopped his vessel's way, was seen
the sun to ye!  Yoke on the further billows; hallo!  a tandem, I drive the
the things that cast man's eyes aloft to that heaven, whose live vividness
the tiller was indispensable.  In a severe gale like this, while the ship is
the vault.  Sir?  The hatchway?  oh!  So it does, sir, so it does.  Art
the vice-bench and the open hatchway; the Carpenter calking its seams; the
the vigilant helmsman would ostentatiously handle his spokes, and the eager
the vivid lightning that had just been darting flambeaux, to light Ahab to his
the voyages were not so prolonged, and were also much more remunerative.
the waters, and the last whale, like the last man, smoke his last pipe, and
the western emigrants' horses only show their erected ears, while their
the whale, and tapped the light cedar planks with their tails.  A sound like
the whale-hunt peremptorily forbids so inglorious an end to the Leviathan.
the white heat for this kind of fine work.  Um-m.  So he must.  I do deem it
the wild thrilling sounds that were heard, were the voices of newly drowned
the wind seemed coming round astern; aye!  the foul breeze became fair!
the windward quarter boat (Ahab's) did not escape.  A great rolling sea,
the yards, while we may, old man, and make a fair wind of it homewards, to
thee!  Hearkening to these voices, East and West, by early sun-rise, and by
thee, thou sun!  Then gazing at his quadrant, and handling, one after the
thee: no!  not one jot more!  Thou canst not tell where one drop of water or
their congenial hearts from inflexible Ahab's.  For a space the old man walked
their valleys, the frosty Swiss have retreated to their mountains; so,
them, he cried to Ahab to place the water-cask near.  No, no --no water for
them, hence that species also is declining.  For they are only being driven
them, with his own hand, round a long, heavy iron bolt.  A flaw!  rejecting
then himself evaporate in the final puff.  Comparing the humped herds of
then ranged round the sides within: a flask of fresh water was placed at the
then tempered.  Ego non baptizo te in nomine patris, sed in nomine diaboli!
then, dost thou not fear eavesdroppers?  Hold, don't speak!  And if I still
then, instantly, the reel began to whirl.  In turn, jerkingly raised and
then?  i've part changed my flesh since that time, why not my mind?  Besides,
there is now no telling; but, be that as it may, he had not been long at
there no other way?  no lawful way? --Make him a prisoner to be taken home?
there still seems an inequality in the deeper analysis of the thing.  For,
there.  In the Isle of Man, hey?  Well, the other way, it's good.  Here's a
these anchors now as if they were never going to be used again.  tying these
these resplendent Japanese seas the mariner encounters the direst of all
they had heard the night before.  But again the old Manxman said nay.  The
they have done extremely well, and thank God, if at last they carry home the
they peered in, for nothing but their own
they stood upright against the forward bulkhead.  Starbuck was an honest,
they will, still.  But do they only have mercy on long faces? --have they no
thine?  And who are hearsed that die on the sea?  But I said, old man, that
thing for immortal souls to sieve through!  Who art thou, boy?  Bell-boy,
thing from others; and hence it was, that not till a considerable interval
think. --I come to report a fair wind to him.  But how fair?  Fair for death
thinkest thou now, man; I heard thy cry; it was not the same in the song.
this barb?  holding it high up.  A cluster of dark nods replied, Yes.  Three
this event, at least as a portent; for they regarded it, not as a
this hand complies with my humor more genially than that boy. -- Middle aisle
this life's howling gale?  Starbuck!  I'll not have the Burtons hoisted.
this luckless child, and have abandoned him, ye creative libertines.  Here,
this sea, whose gently awful stirrings seem to speak of some hidden soul
this seam?  Oh!  that is the one, sir!  Said I not all seams and dents but
this soliloquizer on guard there, and talking all the time to keep himself
this time it was that my poor pagan companion, and fast bosom-friend,
this way and that --was burning fitfully, and casting fitful shadows upon the
this way.  A touch, and Starbuck may survive to hug his wife and child
this.  What was that now about one leg standing in three places, and all
this: that the gods themselves are not for ever glad.  The ineffaceable, sad
those of Nantucket, all the more congenial to him, being a whaleman, that
those orphans whose unwedded mothers die in bearing them: the secret of our
those screws, and let's finish it before the resurrection fellow comes
thou a silk-worm?  Dost thou spin thy own shroud out of thyself?  Look at thy
thou callest thyself a right good workmanlike workman, eh!  Well, then, will
thou canst but kill; and all are killed.  No fearless fool now fronts thee.
thou canst not die till it be seen, old man.  And what was that saying about
thou could'st, blacksmith, glad enough would I lay my head upon thy anvil,
thou crazy loon, cried the Manxman, seizing him by the arm.  Away from the
thou done with her?  There lies my puzzle; but thine is greater.  Thou knowest
thou it.  I hold the spool, sir.  But just as my captain says.  With these
thou makest, I shall nevertheless feel another leg in the same identical
thou not also the undertaker?  Aye, sir; I patched up this thing here as a
thou sneezing about?  Bone is rather dusty, sir.  Take the hint, then; and
thou tell where some other thing besides me is this moment living?  Where is
thou thyself happenest to be on this wide planet, and the hand that holds
though for some time past a number of these whales, not less than 13,000 have
though thou launchest navies of full-freighted worlds, there's that in here
though thou only see'st it here in my flesh, it has worked down into the bone
thought Ahab, while even the highest earthly felicities ever have a certain
thought of his case was forcibly shown by a curious favor he asked.  He called
thought of that at the time.  Indeed, in some sort, they were not grieved at
thoughts than those, whose mysterious shades you saw creeping over the face
thoughts, Starbuck said nothing, but quietly he issued all requisite orders;
thousand leagues of blue.  There is, one knows not what sweet mystery about
three places standing in one hell --how was that?  Oh!  I don't wonder he
thrice their previous height; Ahab, with the rest, closes his eyes, his
through the water with some precision again; and the course --for the present,
thunder?  Um, um, um.  We don't want thunder; we want rum; give us a glass
thus far been accumulated
thus marred or lost; and if the binnacle compasses be affected, the same
thus the first man of the pequod that mounted the mast to look out for the
thwart of his boat that his ivory leg had
thy creativeness mechanical.  Through thee, thy flaming self, my scorched
thyself?  Though it come to the last, I shall still go before thee thy
till there seemed but little left of him but his frame and tattooing.  But as
time, to increase her distance from it.  But the rest of her crew being at
time.  What a hooroosh aloft there!  I would e'en take it for sublime, did I
tinkerings; we are their betters.  I like to take in hand none but clean,
tipped with a pallid fire; and touched at each tri-pointed lightning-rod-end
to Flask, that some one in that missing boat wore off that Captain's best
to beware of Starbuck; thou wouldst but laugh; but let Ahab beware of Ahab;
to do some little job for them; altering, or repairing, or new shaping their
to every stroke of the clenched hands of the crew.  On the quarter-deck, the
to her, the boastful sails all fell together as blank bladders that are
to leeward, homeward --I see it lightens up there; but not with the
to pick up her three far to windward boats --ere going in quest of the fourth
to stop my singing
to that ever-contracting, dropping circle ashore, who, for any reason,
to the helmsman.  For during the violence of the gale, he had only steered
to the starry archipelagoes; for not only do they believe that the stars are
to their stowage.  To be short, among whalemen, the harpooneers are the
to traditions no rocks furnish tablets; where for long Chinese ages, the
together, and hung pendulous, like a knot of numbed wasps from a drooping,
told?  But I've forgotten.  Any way, I'll have me thirty separate,
tongue, Starbuck grasped Ahab by the arm -- God, God is against thee, old
too calmly, sanely woful to me.  In no Paradise myself, I am impatient of
too hast thy incommunicable riddle, thy unparticipated grief.  Here again with
too was standing on his quarter-deck, shaggy and black, with a stubborn
too, but not to all; --look here, they burn; but thou--thou liv'st among them
too, of water, and bread, and beef, and shooks of staves, and iron bundles of
tormented flaming life; and I have seen it wane at last, down, down, to
tormented sleep, as if Starbuck's voice had caused the long dumb dream to
touchest my inmost centre, boy; thou art tied to me by cords woven of my
trample on thee, thou paltry thing that feebly pointest on high; thus I split
transferringly measured on it the exact length the coffin was to be, and then
tumultuous way, and Ahab's also, as he went lurching along the deck.  I
tune this heart beats;
twist and wrench, that though it still remained entire, and to all
two anchors here, Flask, seems like tying a man's hands behind him.  And what
unaccompanied with hinted dark meanings.  He hollowly laughed, and thus
unaccountable, cunning life-principle in him; this it was, that kept him a
unappalled.  Yet the grey Manxman --the oldest mariner of all -- declared that
uncontinented seas, interflow with the blue heavens; and so form the white
understand somewhat now.  Yes, I have heard something curious on that score,
unexpected question; and would then have fain boarded the stranger, when
unimpressed; or if impressed, it was only with a certain magnetism shot into
unmanageably winces under the unconcluded operation; whirling round the
unnamable imminglings, float beneath me here; I am buoyed by breaths of once
unresting eye; all thy strange mummeries not unmeaningly blended with the
unsignifying pettiness lurking in them, but, at bottom, all heart-woes, a
unstaggering breeze abounded so, that sky and air seemed vast outbellying
unverdured seas; thou art an infidel, thou queen, and too truly speakest to
up to my table-lands yet.  Quick, and see to it. --By masts and keels!  he
up towards the sun and murmured to himself: Thou sea-mark!  thou high and
upon a beach.  Ahab and all his boat's crew seemed asleep but the Parsee; who
upon her heel, her three firm-seated graceful masts erectly poised upon her
upon him there; where, stripped to his woollen drawers, the tattooed savage
upon the Niger's unknown source; here, too, life dies sunwards full of
upon the anvil --the red mass sending off the sparks in thick hovering
upon the reel, not many hours after the magnet scene, and he remembered how
upon these almost final waters, and gliding towards the Japanese
upper panels.  The isolated subterraneousness of the cabin made a certain
upright man; but out of Starbuck's heart, at that instant when he saw the
upwards, he cried: See!  see!  and once more the high tapering flames were
us that at one hunting the King of Siam took
usage as it had?  I think so, sir.  And I suppose thou can'st smoothe
using the musket for a staff, with an iron brow he paced to and fro in the
vainly warning the infatuated old world from the flood.  Tierce after tierce,
vales; the mild blue hill-sides; as over these there steals the hush, the
valuable sperm, but additional supplemental casks had been bartered for,
various parts so manifold, was his vice-bench; a long rude ponderous table
various sizes, but also screw-drivers, cork-screws, tweezers, awls, pens,
various weapons and boat furniture.  Often he would be surrounded by an eager
vessels, he was, to a certain off-handed, practical extent, alike experienced
vice-bench, the carpenter for convenience' sake and general reference, now
vice.  Slabs of ivory, leather straps, pads, screws, and various tools of all
views to safety, now swim the seas in immense caravans, so that to a large
violently jammed his hand, as he was passing a lashing.  Blast it! --but
virgin, fair-and-square mathematical jobs, something that regularly begins
voyage, had been cut from the aboriginal groves of the Lackaday islands, and
war is pain, and hate is woe.  Come in thy lowest form of love, and I will
warped it; all the elements had combined to rot a thing that hung so idly.
warrior, stretched him out in his canoe, and so left him to be floated away
was a stript abstract; an unfractioned integral; uncompromised as a new-born
was brought to the ship.
was crawling about amid that dampness and slime, like a green spotted lizard
was furnished with colored glasses, through which to take sight of that solar
was moreover unhesitatingly expert in all manner of conflicting aptitudes,
was no duplicate; hence, he now comes in person on this stage.  Like all
was shown; and Starbuck went down into the cabin to report this unfavorable
watching his final wanings from the now tranquil boat.  For that strange
water.  A hatchet!  a hatchet!  cut it off -- we haul in no cowards here.
waters into the Pacific.  And so Starbuck found Ahab with a general chart of
waters of the world, the Indian ocean and Atlantic being but its arms.  The
waves should rise and fall, and ebb and flow unceasingly; for here, millions
way --come, oakum; quick.  Here we go again.  This wooden mallet is the cork,
weeks after Ahab's harpoon had been welded.  It was a Nantucket ship, the
went a-whaling.
were full of gold coins.  I, too, want a harpoon made; one that a thousand
were pumping the ship next morning; and lo!  no inconsiderable oil came up
were ready for it yet in that direction.  Overhearing the indignant but
were seen standing round her huge try-pots, which, covered with the
whale, or a gale, or some violent, ungovernable, unintelligent destroyer of
whale-boat adrift?  Throttling his joy, Ahab negatively answered this
whale-boat.  pip's missing.  let's see now if ye haven't fished him up here,
whale-bone whales no longer haunt many grounds in former years abounding with
whales with the humped herds of buffalo, which, not forty years ago,
what an old fellow gets now for working in dead lumber.  Saw a live tree, and
whatever small outward clingings might have originally pertained to him?  He
whatever that might prove to be; therefore, they were going to leave the
when captain ahab came along, carrying in his hand a small rusty-looking
when its lightning strikes a would-be murderer in his bed, tindering sheets
when this strange circumstance was made known aft, the carpenter was at once
when thou art dead, never bury thyself under living people's noses.  Sir?
where I am --but canst thou cast the least hint where I shall be?  Or canst
where the blacksmith is at work.) Drat the file, and drat the bone!  That is
whether it was that he was not yet half waked from his sleep (for sailors
which also hummingly soliloquizes; or rather, his body was a sentry-box and
which is sucked in --by what?  Up with the reel!  The dead, blind wall butts
white bubbles in the blue of the sea.  The life-buoy --a long slender cask --was
white, for I will not let this go.
who file old jaws and shinbones.  Let's try another.  Aye, now, this works
who thus far had but icily received his petition.  For eight-and-forty hours
who were alive seventy-five years ago; and adding this countless host to the
whole bulk about; makes all coasts one bay to it; seems the tide-beating
wholly neglect to heave the log; though at the same time, and frequently more
whose object might have been to revive the spirits of his crew by a stroke of
why mayest not thou, carpenter, feel the fiery pains of hell for ever, and
wide-rolling watery prairies and Potters' Fields of all four continents, the
wife, and three blithe, ruddy children; every Sunday went to a
wild cries they raised, as the now useless brick and mortar were being hurled
will I guide my earthly way by thee; the level ship's compass, and the level
will serve my turn.  What art thou thrusting that thief-catcher into my face
will shortly trouble us so little for evermore, the poor fellows ought to be
will still survive, and rearing upon the topmost crest of the equatorial
will ye?  Thank ye.  They laugh at long-togs so, Flask; but seems to me, a
wind has gone down and shifted, sir; the fore and main topsails are reefed
windlass for a few indolent days (but eating with a vigorous appetite) he
winds, and this brain-truck of mine now sails amid the cloud-scud.  Shall I
with Yojo between, he called for the coffin lid (hatch he called it) to be
with a certain grizzled wittiness; such as might have served to pass the time
with a small lightning-rod running up the corner of his hat, like a militia
with an attentive eye.  He then called for his harpoon, had the wooden stock
with half an eye can be sensible.  I don't know that, Stubb.  You sometimes
with the oblique energy of the wind, was now almost dipping into the creamy,
with the pain; have I been but forging my own branding-iron, then?  Pray
with the water; the casks below must have sprung a bad leak.  Much concern
with thee; I burn with thee; would fain be welded with thee; defyingly I
with them from the Polynesian Isles; while suspended in an ornamented boat,
with three tapering white flames, each of the three tall masts was silently
without a body?  Hah!  Good Lord!  Truly, sir, if it comes to that, I must
without a scorch.  Because I am scorched all over, Captain Ahab, answered
without delay set about making a new leg, and directed the mates to see him
woe on woe!  Oh, Death, why canst thou not sometimes be timely?  Hadst thou
wondrous and fearful in man, never yet was put into words or books.  And the
wondrous extermination was the spear of man; yet the far different nature of
wood, like the rich war-wood of his native isle; and upon inquiry, he had
wood.  At all times except when whales were alongside, this bench was securely
word, it was Queequeg's conceit, that if a man
work of a departed prophet and seer of his island, who, by those hieroglyphic
world it runs, and then comes the spring!  But as for me, all the start I
world; and the thousand harpoons and lances darted along all continental
worship thee!  The boat!  the boat!  cried Starbuck, look at thy boat, old
would be liable to many mishaps, besides interfering not a little with some
would do the job.  But I'm made of knotty Aroostook hemlock; I don't budge.
would have no lightning-rods?  But shall this crazed old man be tamely
would have slain not forty, but forty thousand and more buffaloes; a fact
would seem to argue some uncommon vivacity of intelligence.  But not precisely
would weld his own iron.  As, then, with regular, gasping hems, he hammered
wrist: the carpenter concocts a soothing lotion.  Stubb longed for vermillion
ye the doxology for a wind-up.  Madman!  look through my eyes if thou hast
year.  What we come twenty thousand miles to get is worth saving, sir.  So
years (the latter part of the last century, say) these Leviathans, in small
yet two to the soul.  Where thou feelest tingling life; there, exactly there,
yet.  Mr. Starbuck--a lance without a pole; a top-maul, and the smallest of
yoke of fiends could not part, Perth; something that will stick in a whale
you King-Post, you, I suppose you would have every man in the world go about
you don't get this dust; amputate a live bone, and you don't get it
you rise the harder you toil.  So with poor Queequeg, who, as harpooneer,
young bride's eye! --Tell me not of thy teeth-tiered sharks, and thy
your oaths to hunt the White Whale are as binding as mine; and heart, soul,
yourself; you're Aquarius, or the water-bearer, Flask; might fill pitchers
