

















































































    
    
    
     A Voyage round Cape Horn into the South Seas, for the purpose of extending
     A word concerning an incident in the last
     Advancement of Learning you will find some curious whales.  But quitting all
     All dention, said Fleece, again stooping over upon his tongs in the
     Am I the same man that helped kill this whale?  Doesn't the devil live for
     Captain Mayhew, stand by now to receive it; and taking the fatal missive
     Captain, I have just bethought me of my letter-bag; there is a letter for
     Didn't say dat t'all, said Fleece, again in the sulks.  You said up there,
     Fellow-critters: I'se ordered here to say dat you must stop dat dam noise
     Go to bed berry soon, he mumbled, half-turning as he spoke.  Avast!  heave
     Hand in hand, ship and breeze
     Haul in the chains!  Let the carcase go
     Here, now, are
     I have given no small attention to that
     I shall ere long
     If to Starbuck the apparition of
     It should not have been omitted that
     It was a Saturday night, and such a
     Meantime, the hoisted sperm whale's head jogged about very violently, and
     Now, cook, said Stubb, resuming his supper at the capstan; Stand just where
     O man!  in all seasons a temperature of thine own.  But how easy and how
     Out of the trunk, the branches grow; out
     PICTURES OF WHALING SCENES In connexion with the monstrous pictures of
     Silence!  How old are you, cook? 'Bout ninety, dey say, he gloomily
     Slowly wading through the meadows of brit, the
     Steering north-eastward from the Crozetts, we
     Stubb here alluded to a strange story told of the Jeroboam, and a certain
     Stubb's whale had been killed some
     Talk to 'em gentlemanly.  Once more the sermon proceeded.  Your
     That lively cry upon this deadly calm might almost convert a better man.
     That mortal man should feed upon
     The old monks of Dunfermline were very fond of them.  They had a great
     They have such an eatable look that the most self-denying stranger can hardly
     Well then, cook; you see this whale-steak of yours was so very bad, that I
     Whale-balls for breakfast --don't forget.  Wish, by gor!  whale eat him,
     Whale; Colnett's, Huggins's, Frederick Cuvier's, and Beale's.  In the
     What was it, Sir?  said Flask.  The great live squid, which they say, few
     When in the Southern Fishery, a
     Who dat?  Den preach to him yourself, sullenly turning to go.  No, Cook;
     With reference to the whaling scene shortly to
     a broad, semicircular line is cut round the hole, the hook is inserted, and
     a steak, ere I sleep!  You, Daggoo!  overboard you go, and cut me one from
     all that would not one jot advance his grand, monomaniac object.  Very soon
     and making a long arc in his descent, fell into the sea at the distance of
     and the ball, and the explosion; so the graceful repose of the line, as it
     and, as for the narwhale, one glimpse at it is enough to amaze one, that in
     antediluvian Hindoo.  It is Guido's picture of Perseus rescuing Andromeda
     as the strained line, scraping beneath the ship, suddenly rose to view under
     body, is at last locked fast round the smallest part of the tail, at the
     caused by the vast drifts of brit continually floating in those latitudes,
     consideration before mentioned: i.  e.  that a man should eat a newly murdered
     fowls, whose beaks are like so many insulting poniards in the whale.  The
     get him to swap away his silver watch, or his soul, or something of that
     grey-headed whale.  Let us now note what is least dissimilar in these heads
     intelligent public of schoolboys.  Then, again, in
     it is all the time being hoisted higher and higher aloft till its upper end
     never saw such a book; heard of it, though.  But now, tell me, Stubb, do you
     other end is secured to the ship.  By adroit management the wooden float is
     scarf, simultaneously cut by the spades of Starbuck and Stubb, the mates;
     so that we seemed to be sailing through boundless fields of ripe and golden
     strong individual vitality, and the rare virtue of thick walls, and the rare
     terror, than though seated before your evening fire with a poker, and not a
     that of the fatal accidents in the Sperm-Whale Fishery, this kind is perhaps
     that they cast long gleams of light over the turbid sea, these
     the Pequod had gradually drifted into a sea, which, by its occasional
     the Right Whale are by far the most noteworthy.  They are the only whales
     the strongest point anywhere above a ship's deck.  The end of the hawser-like
     this is a thing which carries more of true terror than any other aspect of
     this story is in substance really true?  It is so passing wonderful!  Did you
     thou must either-- But that instant a headlong wave shot the boat far
     thousands on thousands of sharks, swarming round the dead leviathan,
     to rise on the other side of the mass, so that now having girdled the made
     trace out great whales in the starry heavens, and boats in pursuit of them;
     with broken back, would correctly represent the noble animal itself in all
 "Also bear with all of us, sir sailor; for we all join in Don Sebastian's
 "So help me Heaven, and on my honor the story I have told ye, gentlemen, is
 (in the act of cutting-in) hove over to the monster as if to a quay; and a
"but I know a worthy priest near by, who will quickly procure one for me.  I
'em they are welcome to help themselves civilly, and in moderation, but they
'stead of him eat whale.  I'm bressed if he ain't more of shark dan Massa
(that is to say, the Right whale), even Scoresby, a long experienced man as
, Bernard Germain,
, and hoisted on deck.  I doubt not the
, entitled A Whaling Voyage to
, he
, there are plates of an alleged whale and a narwhale.  I do not wish
-- Stand up, and give it to him!  He now has to drop and secure his oar,
-- There!  there again!  there she breaches!  right ahead!  The White Whale,
-- Think, think of the blasphemer --dead, and down there! --beware of the
-- namely, the two most important organs, the eye and the ear.
-- take it, and taste it.  Faintly smacking his withered lips over it for a
--Where away?  Three points on the starboard bow, sir, and bringing down her
--the man's wife, I'll wager) -- Aye --Mr. Harry Macey, Ship Jeroboam; --why
.. < chapter lix 4  SQUID >
.. < chapter lv 7  OF THE MONSTROUS PICTURES OF WHALES >
.. < chapter lvi 6  OF THE LESS ERRONEOUS PICTURES OF WHALES, AND THE TRUE >
.. < chapter lvii 23  OF WHALES IN PAINT; IN TEETH; IN WOOD; IN >
.. < chapter lviii 11  BRIT >
.. < chapter lx 26  THE LINE >
.. < chapter lxi 17  STUBB KILLS A WHALE >
.. < chapter lxii 19  THE DART >
.. < chapter lxiii 2  THE CROTCH >
.. < chapter lxiv 16  STUBB'S SUPPER >
.. < chapter lxix 2  THE FUNERAL >
.. < chapter lxv 12  THE WHALE AS A DISH >
.. < chapter lxvi 2  THE SHARK MASSACRE >
.. < chapter lxvii 23  CUTTING IN >
.. < chapter lxviii 29  THE BLANKET >
.. < chapter lxx 14  THE SPHYNX >
.. < chapter lxxi 2  THE JEROBOAM'S STORY >
.. < chapter lxxiii 23  STUBB AND FLASK KILL A RIGHT WHALE; AND THEN HAVE >
.. < chapter lxxiv 7  THE SPERM WHALE'S HEAD--CONTRASTED VIEW >
.. <p 241n. >
.. <p 260 >
.. <p 261 >
.. <p 261 >
.. <p 262 >
.. <p 263 >
.. <p 264 >
.. <p 265 >
.. <p 266 >
.. <p 266 >
.. <p 267 >
.. <p 268 >
.. <p 269 >
.. <p 269 >
.. <p 270 >
.. <p 271 >
.. <p 272 >
.. <p 272 >
.. <p 272n. >
.. <p 273 >
.. <p 274 >
.. <p 275 >
.. <p 275 >
.. <p 276 >
.. <p 277 >
.. <p 277 >
.. <p 278 >
.. <p 279 >
.. <p 280 >
.. <p 281 >
.. <p 281 >
.. <p 282 >
.. <p 283 >
.. <p 283n. >
.. <p 284 >
.. <p 284n. >
.. <p 285 >
.. <p 286 >
.. <p 286 >
.. <p 287 >
.. <p 288 >
.. <p 289 >
.. <p 289 >
.. <p 290 >
.. <p 290n. >
.. <p 291 >
.. <p 292 >
.. <p 293 >
.. <p 294 >
.. <p 295 >
.. <p 296 >
.. <p 297 >
.. <p 297 >
.. <p 298 >
.. <p 299 >
.. <p 300 >
.. <p 301 >
.. <p 301 >
.. <p 301n. >
.. <p 302 >
.. <p 303 >
.. <p 303 >
.. <p 304 >
.. <p 305 >
.. <p 306 >
.. <p 307 >
.. <p 308 >
.. <p 308 >
.. <p 309 >
.. <p 310 >
.. <p 311 >
.. <p 312 >
.. <p 313 >
.. <p 314 >
.. <p 315 >
.. <p 316 >
.. <p 317 >
.. <p 317 >
.. <p 322 >
.. <p 323 >
.. <p 324 >
.. <p 325 >
.. <p 326 >
.. <p 327 >
.. <p 327 >
.. <p 328 >
.. <p 329 >
A TALK OVER HIM It must be borne in mind that all this time we have a Sperm
A little item may as well be related here.  The strongest and most reliable
According to this account and what was subsequently learned, it seemed that
Again the phantom went down, but on re-appearing once more, with a
Ahab said nothing; turning his boat, he sailed back to the vessel; the rest
Ahab stood on the bowsprit, and with one hand pushed far behind in readiness
Ahab; thou art soon going that way.  Curses throttle thee!  yelled Ahab.
American fishery almost entirely superseded hemp as a material for
An interval passed and the boats were in plain sight, in the act of being
And now suspended in stages over the side, Starbuck and Stubb, the mates,
Auto-da-Fes in Lima now," said one of the company to another: "I fear our
Beware of the horrible plague!  Gabriel, Gabriel!  cried Captain Mayhew;
Both are massive enough in all conscience; but there is a certain mathematical
Browne are pretty correct in contour; but they are wretchedly engraved.  That
But Fleece had hardly got three paces off, when he was recalled.  Cook, give
But I sometimes think he'll charm the ship to no good at last.  I don't half
But don't you know the higher you climb, the colder it gets?  Main-top, eh?
But his wild screams were answered by others quite as wild.  Kee-hee!
But it was only the sound they made as they parted the brit which at all
But nothing like this, in the present case, had been done.  The carcases of
But with the whale, these two sashes are separately inserted, making two
But, perhaps you expect to get into heaven by crawling through the lubber's
By experiment its one and fifty yarns will each suspend a weight of one
China, four or five laborers on the foot-path will draw a bulky freighted
Christian painter's portrait of this fish; for he succeeds no better than the
Christianity; go on.  No use goin' on; de dam willains will keep a
Circassian to behold.  The whale line is only two thirds of an inch in
Consider!  Most of the scientific drawings have been taken from the
Count de Lacepede,
Death himself might well have been the post-boy.  Can'st not read it?  cried
Don Sebastian; but may I also beg that you will be particular in procuring
Don't be tearin' de blubber out your neighbour's mout, I say.  Is not one
Don." "Then I entreat you, tell me if to the best of your own convictions,
England rocks on the sea-coast, which Agassiz imagines to bear the marks of
Far back on the side of the head, and low down, near the angle of either
Fedallah wants to kidnap Captain Ahab?  Do I suppose it?  You'll know it
Fedallah's age.  Nor all the coopers in creation couldn't show hoops enough to
Flask with lance for lance; and thus round and round the Pequod the battle
Flask's saying proved true.  As before, the Pequod steeply leaned over towards
Fleece, as they called him, came shuffling and limping along, assisting his
France, and commanded large prices there.  Also, that in Henry VIIIth's
Frederick Cuvier's Sperm Whale is not a Sperm Whale, but a squash.  Of course,
Gabriel
Gabriel started to his feet.  Think, think of the fevers, yellow and bilious!
Gabriel was seen eyeing it with rather more apprehensiveness than his
Gate leading from the Thames by water into the Tower.  Then, there are the
Go and gaze upon all the paintings in Europe, and where will you find such a
God keep thee!  Push not off from that isle, thou canst never return!
Greedily sucking in this intelligence, Gabriel solemnly warned the captain
Harris's collection of voyages there are some plates of whales extracted from
He was therefore forced to relinquish his plan.  Nor would they permit Gabriel
Hold the steak in one hand, and show a live coal to it with the other; that
Holy Evangelists in the Golden Inn, gentlemen?" "Nay," said Don Sebastian;
Hydrus and the Flying Fish.  With a frigate's anchors for my bridle-bitts and
I remember some such story as you were telling, said Flask, when at last the
I'm coming to, cook.  You must go home and be born over again; you don't
In the case of a small Sperm Whale the brains are accounted a fine dish.  The
In the distance, a great white mass lazily rose, and rising higher and
It is worse; for you cannot sit motionless in the heart of these perils,
It will be seen in some other place of what a very light substance the entire
Jeroboam had a malignant epidemic on board, and that Mayhew, her captain,
Kee-hee!  yelled Daggoo, straining forwards and backwards on his seat,
King of the Cannibals; and ready at any moment to rebel against him.  Now,
Leviathan partly merged in grass, which of a windy day breaks against them in
Mayhew began a dark story concerning Moby Dick; not, however, without
Moreover, while in most other animals that I can now think of, the eyes are so
Mr. Stubb, said Daggoo.  Yes; both pipes smoked out!  and withdrawing his
My original opinion remains unchanged; but it is only an opinion.  The
Nantucket, where, with that cunning peculiar to craziness, he assumed a
Nevertheless, many whalemen have a method of absorbing it into some other
Northern Lights, and the successive armed kings and Emperors dash by, like a
Now, the beheading of the Sperm Whale is a scientific anatomical feat, upon
Pacific, this plan will not answer at all; because such incalculable hosts
Pacifics seemed passed as they shot on their way, till at length the whale
Partly to show the indispensableness of this act, it may here be stated,
Pequod still held on her way north-eastward towards the island of Java; a
Pequod.  I fear not thy epidemic, man, said Ahab from the bulwarks
Peter's!  of creatures, how few vast as the whale!
Pole.  Like the great dome of St.  Peter's, and like the great whale, retain,
Prodromus whales of the old Scotch Sibbald, and Jonah's whale, as depicted
Richard III.  whales, with dromedary humps, and very savage; breakfasting on
SHEET-IRON; IN STONE; IN MOUNTAINS; IN STARS On Tower-hill, as you go down
Sabbath as followed!  Ex officio professors of Sabbath breaking are all
Scoresby; but they are drawn on too small a scale to convey a desirable
Secretary of the Society for the Suppression of Cruelty to Ganders formally
Shaker God incarnated; the Shakers receiving the Bible.  But when, some year
Shark hisself, muttered the old man, limping away; with which sage
So soon as this figure had been first descried, Stubb had exclaimed -- That's
Sperm Whale, will yield the bulk of one hundred barrels of oil; and, when it
Sperm Whale-teeth, or ladies' busks wrought out of the Right Whale-bone, and
Spitzbergen in the ship Jonas in the Whale, Peter Peterson of Friesland,
Squid.  The manner in which the Bishop describes it, as alternately rising
Start her, Tash, my boy --start her, all; but keep cool, keep cool--
Steelkilt since the death of Radney."
Stubb's and Flask's, were detached in pursuit.  Pulling further and further
Stubb, approvingly, coax 'em to it; try that, and Fleece continued.  Do
Stubb, not without some disgust at the thought of having to do with so
Tahitians, who had been somewhat used to the sea.  Chartering a small native
That part of the sea known among whalemen as the Brazil Banks does not bear
The ancient whale-cry upon first sighting a whale from the mast-head, still
The whaling-spade used for cutting-in is made of the very best steel; is about
There are those sharks now over the side, don't you see they prefer it tough
There's your law of precedents; there's your utility of traditions; there's
There, luck befriended him; two ships were about to sail for France, and
Thus, some minds for ever keep trimming boat.  Oh, ye foolish!  throw all
Venetian blind in their mouths, was in that manner separated from the water
Vishnu in the form of leviathan, learnedly known as the Matse Avatar.  But
Whale is depicted in full majesty of might, just risen beneath the boat from
Whale's body, rushed to the fresh blood that was spilled, thirstily drinking
Whale's head hoisted on her starboard side, and at the same time a Right
Whale's on the larboard; did you never hear, Stubb, that that ship can never
Whale's prodigious head hanging to the Pequod's side.  But we must let it
What would become of a Greenland whale, say, in those shuddering, icy seas of
Who Garnery the painter is, or was, I know not.  But my life for it he was
With the same marvellous patience, and with the same single shark's tooth,
Zogranda, one of their most famous doctors, recommends strips of blubber for
a Dutch book of voyages, A. D.
a Picture of a Physeter or Spermaceti whale, drawn by scale from one killed
a Saturday night and see the crowds of live bipeds staring up at the long rows
a broad white shadow rose from the sea; by its quick, fanning motion,
a dusky, dark fellow, a sort of Indian; but Manilla is as a golden-haired
a few inches of the sleepers' hearts.  Peering over the side you could just
a god.  Such things may seem incredible; but, however wondrous, they are
a great naturalist, published a scientific systemized whale book, wherein are
a hempen blue smoke now jetted up and mingled with the steady fumes from his
a moment, stood thoughtfully eyeing the vast corpse he had made.
a mule carrying a pair of overburdening panniers.  Meantime, Fedallah was
a nest of anacondas, as if blindly to clutch at any hapless object within
a peculiar motion of both hands -- Aye, will I!  Flask, I take that Fedallah to
a plate representing the old Indian characters chiselled on the famous
a stiff full length of the Greenland whale, and three or four delicate
a surf of green surges.  Then, again, in mountainous countries where the
a whaling vessel --that these men actually lived for several months on the
a young buck with an intelligent looking calf's head before him, is somehow
a'lee; and then send every one below to his hammock till daylight, with the
abounding a smoke in the chimney, you would think there must be a brave
about fifty yards.  Not a chip of the boat was harmed, nor a hair of any
about it.  Therefore, the common usage is to take in all sail; lash the helm
about of the same opinion; so give the benediction, Fleece, and I'll away to
absolute body the whale is moored alongside the whale-ship so that he can be
accompanies the body.  But strangest of all is the circumstance, that in more
accomplished it was noon, and the seamen went below to their dinner.  Silence
accomplished swordsman, warning all hands to stand off, once more makes a
according to the accompanying scale, to a full grown sperm whale, would make
account for those repeated whaling disasters --some few of which are casually
accounts.  It is a quiet noon-scene among the isles of the Pacific; a French
accuracy.  At some old gable-roofed country houses you will see brass whales
accursed shark alone can in any generic respect be said to bear comparative
accustomed cry, as the great fish slowly and regularly spouted the sparkling
act of feeding, the spermaceti whale obtains his whole food in unknown zones
adapted to our present purpose, nevertheless deserves mention on other
adhering to the timid quarantine of the land, he peremptorily refused to come
adjacent, interdicted parts, and exactly divide the spine at a critical
admirable sauce to be eaten with barbacued porpoises, which, you remember,
advance they sought to gain.  And they stuck to it till they did gain it;
advert to those curious imaginary portraits of him which even down to the
after dart into the flying fish; at the word of command, the boat
after that White Whale, and the devil there is trying to come round him, and
afterwards capsize?  Why not?  I don't know, but I heard that gamboge
again resumed his cruisings.  Where Steelkilt now is, gentlemen, none know;
again, and in due time arrived at Tahiti, his own place of destination.
again.  Subject to this, and other the like interruptions now and then, a
against attacking the white whale, in case the monster should be seen; in his
against his wrist in rowing; and also passing between the men, as they
against the rocks, and leaves them there side by side with the split wrecks
ahab.  give it me, man.  aye, aye it's but a dim scrawl; --what's this?  As
ahead, and its seethings drowned all speech.  Hast thou seen the White Whale?
ahead, no more than he can one exactly astern.  in a word, the position of
air of the day.  And now abating in his flurry, the whale once more rolled
all angel is not'ing more dan de shark well goberned.  Now, look here,
all engaging one unusually strong, active, and knowing whale; when owing to
all fins.  Stubb and Tashtego here changed places -- stem for stern --a
all hands swearing occasionally, by way of assuaging the general friction.
all raging commotion; but behind, in admirable artistic contrast, is the
all swiftly pulling towards their prey.  Soon it went down, and while, with
all the known varieties of the whale.  As the external difference between them
all the well known black bone attached to what is called the crown-piece.
all their might so as to get ahead of the ship.  For a few minutes the
alluded to on a previous page deserves independent mention.  It is a notched
alluring jet would be seen.  But one transparent blue morning, when a
allusion to the Indian rocks reminds me of another thing.  Besides all the
almost as frequent as any.  Sometimes, nothing is injured but the man who is
along the deck, and thrust rattling out of the port-holes.  But by those
alongside and beheaded, to the surprise of all, the announcement was made
alongside the barnacled flank of a large running Right Whale, that rolls his
also seems to me that such scratches in the whale are probably made by hostile
alternately sit at the opposite gunwales, to the leaded chocks or grooves in
alternately sterning out of the way of the whale's horrible wallow, and then
altogether of an irregular, random aspect.  I should say that those New
always wanting oakum to stuff into the toes of his boots.  He sleeps in his
an Ethiopian hue, glistening in the sun's rays like a mirror.  But lazily
an announcement immediately followed by Stubb's producing his match and
an atmosphere of sacredness.  Moreover, they were afraid of him.  As such a
an enemy's sharp two-edged sword by the blade, and that enemy all the time
an incorruptible sea and air rolling and flowing between; yet conscientiously
an ox whip when we get home; -- what else?  Now, do you mean what you say,
analogy to him.  But though, to landsmen in general, the native inhabitants
anchors rot; where in her murderous hold this frigate earth is ballasted with
ancient extant portrait anyways purporting to be the whale's, is to be found
and aft, to the imminent jeopardy of themselves and every one else.  It is
and as the blubber in one strip uniformly peels off along the line called the
and can't be helped; but to gobern dat wicked natur, dat is de pint.  You is
and every one knows that some young bucks among the epicures, by continually
and full of barbaric spirit and suggestiveness, as the prints of that fine
and ghosts of these creatures.  A sort of generic or Pantheistic vitality
and have been saying all along, stubb?  Mean or not mean, here we are at
and he certainly deserved it if any murderer does.  Go to the meat-market of
and hooded head; and hanging there in the midst of so intense a calm, it
and if he had been put on his trial by oxen, he certainly would have been;
and in those days, and even down to a comparatively late period, dolphins
and is all ready for lowering.  The heavers forward now resume their song,
and is then
and joined the chase against the starry Cetus far beyond the utmost stretch of
and just as fast as it is thus peeled off, and indeed by that very act itself,
and large experience.  In short, he is what the fishermen technically call a
and lost.  For, when the line is darting out, to be seated then in the boat,
and other embellishments of some ancient books you will at times meet with
and prophesies of the storm, is perhaps more awful than the storm itself;
and put him in double-darbies, as he deserves, but lets him go about
and rare?  What a shindy they are kicking up!  Cook, go and talk to 'em; tell
and round
and sinking, with some other particulars he narrates, in all this the two
and soft as satin; that is, previous to being dried, when it not only
and some ten or twenty fathoms (called box-line) being coiled upon the box in
and soon after news came from aloft that one or both the boats must be fast.
and soundings there, but because of this remarkable meadow-like appearance,
and struggling hosts, the marksmen could not always hit their mark; and this
and taken from paintings by one Garnery.  Respectively, they represent
and tasselled, the sharks, also, with their jewel-hilted mouths, are
and that is adding insult to injury, is it?  Look at your knife-handle,
and the huge lower block of the tackles was swung over the whale; to this
and turning over on their backs as they scooped out huge globular pieces of
and were stationary for a while, their vast black forms looked more like
and while the one tackle is peeling and hoisting a second strip from the
and yells the keels cut the sea.  Meanwhile, Stubb retaining his place in the
and, like the six burghers of Calais before King Edward, the six men
answer?  When dis old brack man dies, said the negro slowly, changing his
antique vases.  Though universally denominated a dolphin, I nevertheless call
any leviathan's articulated bones.  In fact, as the great Hunter says, the
any rate, it is pleasant to read about whales through their own spectacles,
any stagnant calm; when the long burnished sun-glade on the waters seemed a
any unknown instant the harpoon may be darted, and all these horrible
anywhere near.  And though all hands commonly disdained the capture of those
apparently precedes
application.  As with the Hawaiian savage, so with the white sailor-savage.
archangel nature seemed to warrant.  When this interlude was over, Captain
archangel's denunciations and forewarnings, Macey succeeded in persuading
are a species of whale.  Porpoises, indeed, are to this day considered fine
are but one half-inch in thickness; for the bottom of the whale-boat is like
are enabled to recognise each other upon the ocean, even at considerable
are exposed; the lower end terminating in an eye-splice or loop coming up
are these sea battle-pieces of Garnery.  The natural aptitude of the French for
are you, cook?  What dat do wid de 'teak, said the old black, testily.
arguments against such a presumption; because you cannot raise any other
armed with their long spades, began cutting a hole in the body for the
arrangement is indispensable for common safety's sake; for were the lower end
array, something like those in the finest Italian line engravings.  But these
arrived, and the captain was forced to enlist some of the more civilized
as a backwoodsman swings his rifle from the wall.  It is customary to have two
as if that capstan were a sideboard.  Nor was Stubb the only banqueter on
as silently following.  Whatever superstitions the sperm whalemen in general
as the buffalo's (which is esteemed a rare dish), were it not such a solid
as the vacant profile of the whale; which, so far as picturesqueness of
as they will not fail to elucidate several most important, however intricate
as we eighteen men with our thirty-six arms, and one hundred and eighty
as when long filled with thoughts of war the Eastern nations saw armies locked
as you may say.  But what I am driving at here is this.  That same infinitely
as you may say; this seems so outlandish a thing that one must needs go a
assault.  Yes, a mighty change had come over the fish.  All alive to his
astern!  The vast tackles have now done their duty.  The peeled white body of
at any rate; and his stump as unquestionable a stump as any you will find in
at every new gash, as the eager Israelites did at the new bursting fountains
at him, with an Et tu Brute!  expression.  It is not, perhaps, entirely
at last, a swift, startling snap is heard; with a great swash the ship rolls
at one and the same time.  In this straining, bawling state, then, with his
attached to the harpoon.  In these instances, the whale of course is shifted
attached to the short-warp --the rope which is immediately connected with the
attached, every captain is provided with it.  Thereby, the whale commanders
attacks on the Sperm and Right Whale.  In the first engraving a noble Sperm
attempt weighing a Dutch barn in jewellers' scales The Pequod's whale being
augment; yet for ever and for ever, to the crack of doom, the sea will
authentic abortions; that is, from a Chinese drawing.  And what sort of
away the long blanket-piece as if it were a great live mass of plaited
away, they at last became almost invisible to the men at the mast-head.  But
azure sky, upon the fair face of the pleasant sea, wafted by the joyous
back to the fish, all at once the exhausted harpooneer hears the exciting cry
background, both drooping together in the breezeless air.  The effect is very
backs, so to speak; but, at the same time, also, two fronts (side fronts):
backs.  In another plate, the prodigious blunder is made of representing the
banquet that was going on so nigh him, no more than the sharks heeded the
bare, blackened elevations of the soil; even so, often, with him, who for the
be but the skin?  True, from the unmarred dead body of the whale, you may
be described, as well as for the better understanding of all similar scenes
be found among the oldest Hindoo, Egyptian, and Grecian sculptures.  For ever
be made.  Here be it said, that like the vessels of military marines, the
be so good as to bring the priest also, Don?" "Though there are no
be the devil in disguise.  Do you believe that cock and bull story about his
be too fastidious in your curiosity touching this Leviathan.
beached, and drawn up to the roots of the cocoa-nut trees, Steelkilt made sail
because the boat is rocking like a cradle, and you are pitched one way and
because the whale is so excessively unctuous that landsmen seem to regard the
becomes impossible for the harpooneer, however lightning-like in his
before any of them actually came into being.  No wonder then, that in some
before long, Flask.  But I am going now to keep a sharp look-out on him; and
before reaching that point, it blisteringly passed through and through both
behind it.  If your bitterest foe were walking straight towards you, with
being more tight than a harpstring, you would have thought the craft had two
being not unwilling to let him have the opportunity, despite all the
being well seasoned and spiced might be taken for turtle-balls or veal balls.
believe that such bulky masses of overgrowth can possibly be instinct, in all
belong to the church?  Passed one once in Cape-Down, said the old man
belong, but only as the Anak of the tribe.
beloved fellow-creatures, have you, cook!  And yet you come here, and tell
below the surface; and only by inference is it that any one can tell of what,
berry brig mout, brigger dan oders; but den de brig mouts sometimes has de
berry joosy.  Cook, said Stubb, squaring himself once more; do you
best be likened to the hollow made by a carpenter in countersinking for a
betrayed him; whichever way it might have been, no sooner did he distinctly
better than theirs; but, by great odds, Beale's is the best.  All Beale's
better, an Indian poncho slipt over his head, and skirting his extremity.  It
beyond also rose to sight, and once more the boats were free
bite off de blubber for de small fry ob sharks, dat can't get into de scrouge
bitin' dare?  Cook, cried Stubb, collaring him, I wont have that swearing.
black or speckled.  In life but few of them would have helped the whale, I
black weedy bulk in the sea like some mossy rock-slide from the Patagonian
blasphemer's end!  Ahab stolidly turned aside; then said to Mayhew,
blew on; but the breeze came faster than the ship, and soon the Pequod began
block the great blubber hook, weighing some one hundred pounds, was attached.
block towards the tub, so as in the act of coiling to free it from all
bloody-minded soldadoes?  Did ye read it there, Flask?  I guess ye did?  No;
blubber-room gentlemen coiling, the mates scarfing, the ship straining, and
blubber-room.  Into this twilight apartment sundry nimble hands keep coiling
blubber.  Among the Dutch whalemen these scraps are called fritters; which,
blubber.  Now as the blubber envelopes the whale precisely as the rind does an
boarding-sword, and watching his chance he dexterously slices out a
boat in its complicated coils, twisting and writhing around it in almost
boat up to him, while yet the boat was being towed on.  Soon ranging up by
boat, hurriedly pushing off from this scene of activity, is about giving
body itself.  Nor is this all.  In some instances, to the quick, observant
boiling spray, so that the imperilled craft, instantly dropping astern, had
bones of millions of the drowned; there, in that awful water-land, there was
boots, don't he?  He hasn't got any hammock; but I've seen him lay of nights
borne a righteous husband to outstretched, longing arms.  O head!  thou hast
both whales had dropped astern; and the head-laden ship not a little resembled
bow of his hoisted boat, then you quick see him 'parm whale.  The next day
bowed his arched back still further over, at the same time sideways inclining
bows; a ceaseless whirling eddy in her wake; and, at the slightest motion
bowsman!  and, facing round towards the whale, all hands began pulling the
boys --that's all.  Start her!  Woo-hoo!  Wa-hee!  screamed the Gay-Header in
bred'ren, just try wonst to be cibil, a helping yourselbs from dat whale.
breeze to us!  Better and better, man.  Would now St.  Paul would come along
breezes, that great mass of death floats on and on, till lost in infinite
brilliance and beauty of many of its most remorseless tribes, as the dainty
brine into the air.  clear away the boats!  luff!  cried Ahab.  And obeying
broke out in a freshet.  He announced himself as the archangel Gabriel, and
brought about new revelations of the incredible ferocity of the foe.  They
bulk he assigns it.  By some naturalists who have vaguely heard rumors of the
bulwarks, and no one by; look down there, Flask --pointing into the sea with
bulwarks.  Vacantly eyeing the heaving whale for a moment, he issued the usual
buoyed up by its native element.  And there with the strained craft steeply
buried; and though one or two other like instances might be set down,
business, carrying the line high aloft and then reeving it downwards through a
business.  But, in general, they toil with their jack-knives alone; and, with
but if ever I get a chance of a dark night, and he standing hard by the
but in many scientific presentations of him.  Now, by all odds, the most
but in so important a matter it was certainly an oversight not to have
but so as to form one round, cheese-shaped mass of densely bedded sheaves,
but straightway upon the ship's getting out of sight of land, his insanity
but upon the island of Nantucket, the widow of Radney still turns to the sea
but with such a steady tranquillity, and making so few ripples as he swam,
by a few rapid blows against the gunwale, then again and again sent it into
by his living hunters.  But, taken for all in all, by far the finest, though
by no means adds to the rope's durability or strength, however much it may
by one of those occasional caprices of the seas were tumbling, not heaving it.
by some experienced whaleman.  The French are the lads for painting action.
by the head to the stern, and by the tail to the bows, the whale now lies
cable till the body is stripped.  That done, if it belong to a small whale it
calm, like a universal yellow lotus, was more and more unfolding its
calmly eyeing the right whale's head, and ever and anon glancing from the deep
can fill your dam bellies up to de hatchings, but by Gor!  you must stop dat
can't hear not'ing at all, no more, for eber and eber.  Upon my soul, I am
can't remember where.  Three Spaniards?  Adventures of those three
candelabra in the library of one of his executors, correctly conveys the idea
cannot get at it from the boat, in order to put the chain round it.  But
canted over her spasmodic gunwale into the sea.  Thus they rushed; each man
captain had this veracious picture taken for the benefit of his marines.  To
captain, the stranger in question waved his hand from his boat's stern in
captain, why did ye not give us Jonah looking out of that eye!  Nor are the
captured Sperm Whale, after long and weary toil, is brought alongside late at
captured and a corpse.  Consider, now, how it must be in the case of four boats
carrying on eternal war since the world began.  Consider all this; and then
carved into a snake's head, Stubb?  Sink him!  I never look at him at all;
case of ordinary ropes; for while tar, as ordinarily used, makes the hemp
casket of the skull is broken into with an axe, and the two plump, whitish
caught nigh the paddle-wheels of an ocean steamer.  Thus, the foreground is
causes it to sink low beneath the surface; so that with the hand you
centuries ago the tongue of the Right Whale was esteemed a great delicacy in
chance of encountering them in the four oceans.  Thus, most letters never
chance.  Now, if he's so old as all those hoops of yours come to, and if he
chanced to hit one of many marks in the wide margin allowed.  He became a
chapter.  According to the invariable usage of the fishery, the whale-boat
charge of crowned centaurs?  Not wholly unworthy of a place in that gallery,
chase to whales in the distance.  The harpoons and lances lie levelled for
chronicled --of this man or that man being taken out of the boat by the line,
chronicled them.  Nor when expandingly lifted by your subject, can you fail to
churches you will see sheet-iron whales placed there for weather-cocks; but
churning, as if cautiously seeking to feel after some gold watch that the
circumstanced without a shudder that makes the very marrow in his bones to
civilization inevitably restores a man to that condition in which God placed
clanking links, the vast corpse itself, not the ship, is to be moored.  Tied
clap t'other a'top of your heart, when I'm giving my orders, cook.  What!
cliffs.  His jets are erect, full, and black like soot; so that from so
close under our lee, not forty fathoms off, a gigantic Sperm Whale lay rolling
close-grained beef, but tougher, more elastic and compact, and ranges from
closed eyes; like vices my hands grasped the shrouds; some invisible,
clutched it in an instant, seized the boat-knife, and impaling the letter on
coiled away in his pocket, I guess.  Blast him!  now that I think of it, he's
coils it down, do ye see, in the eye of the rigging.  What's the old man
coils of box line (mentioned in a preceding chapter) making this feat, in
coins, the dolphin was drawn in scales of chain-armor like Saladin's, and a
come to the hull, that at first it seemed as if he meant it malice; but
come.  His three whales are as good whales as were ever published in Wapping,
coming famine; it will be more tolerable for that provident Fejee, I say, in
coming to specialties, where, for example, does the ocean furnish any fish
command, came to a dead stop on the opposite side of Stubb's sideboard;
commanded the captain to jump overboard.  He published his manifesto, whereby
communication.  Preserving an interval of some few yards between itself and
completely disengaged from everything.  This arrangement of the lower end is
composing the crew pull into the jaws of death, with a halter around every
conciliating the devil.  But, as yet, Stubb heeded not the mumblings of the
concluded; and when, accordingly, Queequeg and a forecastle seaman came on
congregate, and most hilariously feast; yet is there no conceivable time or
connect the ideas of mildness and repose with the first sight of the
conquest, betrayed an unusual but still good-natured excitement.  Such an
consecutive great battles of France; where every sword seems a flash of the
consequence of being kept in a dark locker of the cabin.  Of such a letter,
considerable hole in the lower part of the swaying mass.  Into this hole, the
consideration will teach, that however baby man may brag of his science and
contact with other whales; for I have most remarked them in the large,
contains it in itself, as the seemingly harmless rifle holds the fatal powder,
contending strain threatened to take them under.  But it was only a few feet
continue hanging there a while till we can get a chance to attend to it.  For
contortions be put in play like ringed lightnings; he cannot be thus
contour between a young sucking whale and a full-grown Platonian Leviathan;
contracting his spout-hole, with sharp, cracking, agonized respirations.  At
contracts and thickens, but becomes rather hard and brittle.  I have several
convenient to the sailor for common ship use; yet, not only would the ordinary
conversation was sustained between the two parties; but at intervals not
cook, and don't know yet how to cook a whale-steak?  rapidly bolting another
cooked whales; but the Esquimaux are not so fastidious.  We all know how they
corpse in the sea; and it seemed hardly to budge at all, except at long
correspond.  But much abatement is necessary with respect to the incredible
could hook it out.  But that gold watch he sought was the innermost life of
could not hope to reach her.  So the signal was set to see what response would
counted upon the honor of the capture.  It was obvious, now, that the whale
countries of India, the stranger at a distance will sometimes pass on the
country?  he cried, sharply.  No, you didn't, cook; but I'll tell you what
course, went round the stern of the ship towing the two boats after him, so
covering.  However recklessly the whale may sometimes serve us, said
crabs, shell-fish, and other sea candies and maccaroni, which the Right Whale
craft, takes his proper station in the bows of the boat.  Now, I care not who
creatures glide under water, unapparent for the most part, and treacherously
creatures which itself hath spawned.  Like a savage tigress that tossing in
creatures, that warm themselves under the lee of an iceberg, as a traveller
crew remained untainted, and though his ship was half a rifle-shot off, and
critical ice, which will bear up a considerable distributed weight, but
cucumbers is the word --easy, easy --only start her like grim death and
curious things about this Leviathan, that his skeleton gives very little idea
cuttle-fish, to which, indeed, in certain external respects it would seem to
dagger uplifted in broad day, you would not be able to see him, any more
dam racket!  Cook, here interposed Stubb, accompanying the word with a
dangling, sharp-edged
dare.  you hear?  stop dat dam smackin' ob de lip!  massa Stubb say dat you
dart, the heavy implement has to be flung to the distance of twenty or thirty
darted without recovery.  All these particulars are faithfully narrated here,
dashed the sea-water into it.  More turns were taken, so that the line began
de tail!  How you tink to hear, 'spose you keep up such a dam slappin' and
dead, some vague dissatisfaction, or impatience, or despair, seemed working
decapitated and the body stripped, the head was hoisted against the ship's
decision about the propriety of devil-worship, and the expediency of
deck to see that all goes well.  But sometimes, especially upon the Line in the
deck, no small excitement was created among the sharks; for immediately
deck, such is then the outlandish, eel-like, limbered, varying shape of him,
deck-table are
declare it to be the largest animated thing in the ocean, yet very few of
declared these things; --the dark, daring play of his sleepless, excited
deeper men than Doctor Johnson who believe in them.
deeper midnight of the insatiate maw; and his murderers still sailed on
deficiency, because it is by such pictures only, when at all well done,
deformities floundering in seas of blood and blue paint.  but these manifold
defray the current expenses of the war (at least before realizing the
degree of exactness.  So there is no earthly way of finding out precisely what
deliver my message.  Here, take this lantern, snatching one from his
delivery to the persons to whom they may be addressed, depends upon the mere
demanded Ahab, when the boat drifted back.  Think, think of thy whale-boat,
denizens of more stirring waters, than those off the Rio de la Plata, or the
dense enveloping layer from the whale's body but that same blubber; and the
dentistical-looking implements, specially intended for the skrimshandering
descended from heaven by the way of a trap-door, announcing the speedy
designated by Stubb; comprising the tapering extremity of the body.  About
desired position.  Well, said Stubb, helping himself freely meanwhile; I
destroyed the wrecked ships of last year.  Yea, foolish mortals, Noah's flood
devil kidnapped, he'd roast for him?  There's a governor!  Do you suppose
devil?  Who's afraid of him, except the old governor who daresn't catch him
devilish easy and gentlemanlike, and inquiring if the old governor was at
didn't you, and now look yourself, and see where your tongs are pointing.
differ the sea and the land, that a miracle upon one is not a miracle upon
dignity.  In the present instance, too, this dignity is heightened by the
diminished, by vigorously stirring them up with sharp whaling-spades, a
dining upon calves' brains, by and by get to have a little brains of their
disasters have immemorially and indiscriminately befallen tens and hundreds
disciples among the crew, that at last in a body they went to the captain and
disciples believed that he had specifically fore-announced it, instead of
disgorge what are supposed to be the detached arms of the squid; some of them
dish, as if stabbing with his lance; cook, you cook! --sail this way, cook!
dish, is his exceeding richness.  He is the great prize ox of the sea, too
disposing of the body of a right whale, when brought alongside the ship, the
distance from the ship.  It was a calm; so, forming a tandem of three boats,
distances, and with no small facility.  The Pequod's signal was at last
distinct windows, but sadly impairing the view.  This peculiarity of the
divinity.  Now, while Macey, the mate, was standing up in his boat's bow, and
does, he would not stop there, for the doomed boat would infallibly be
done, dish it; d'ye hear?  And now to-morrow, cook, when we are cutting in
done, or else it's no go.  But none of us are in heaven yet.  Drop your
double, in order to bring down his centre of gravity.  Whole Atlantics and
down his motionless flanks into the sea.  His heart had burst!  He's dead,
down; wedder Fejee god or Nantucket god; but de god wat made shark must be
dragged down after him into the profundity of the sea; and in that case no
dragged right towards the ship by the towing whale.  So close did the monster
drawings of this whale are good, excepting the middle figure in the picture of
duck you, though -- yes, and drown you --what then?  I should like to see him
each other, when heaven seemed false to them.  Thou saw'st the murdered mate
earth, and now not even hovering in the air!  There's orthodoxy!  Thus, while
eating of him with abhorrence; that appears to result, in some way, from the
eating.  The meat is made into balls about the size of billiard balls, and
effect is concerned, is about tantamount to sketching the profile of a
effectually divided as they are by many cubic feet of solid head, which
eight or ten to twelve and fifteen inches in thickness.  Now, however
either practically conversant with his subject, or else marvellously tutored
either sensation or instinct; but undulated there on the billows, an
ejaculation he went to his hammock.
element it is a thing eternally impossible for mortal man to hoist
elsewhere presented, I have here to speak of the magical, sometimes horrible
embellished shape of many species of sharks.  Consider, once more, the
encompassed by all the horrors of the half known life.
end of the second alternating great tackle is then hooked so as to retain a
engravings of boat hooks, chopping knives, and grapnels; and with the
equal to three tons.  In length, the common sperm whale-line measures
ere the boats were down, majestically turning, he swam away to the leeward,
erecting himself, while whole thunder-clouds swept aside from his brow.
escape being made a Mazeppa of, and run away with where the all-seeing sun
eternally stove and sunk by him.  Wherefore, it seems to me you had best not
even by the immense tackles of a whaler, this were as vain a thing as to
even so these monsters swam, making a strange, grassy, cutting sound; and
event clothed the archangel with added influence; because his credulous
ever-contracting gash thus made, he must skilfully steer clear of all
ever; declaring that the plague, as he called it, was at his sole command;
ever; who ever heard that the devil was dead?  Did you ever see any parson a
ever; yet not a modern sun ever sets, but in precisely the same manner the
every direction.  All the oarsmen are involved in its perilous contortions; so
every rod that it so floats, what seem square roods of sharks and cubic roods
every sailor a butcher.  You would have thought we were offering up ten
everybody in the Jeroboam.  His story was this: He had been originally
evinced his customary activity, to call it so; yet now that the creature was
exceedingly brisk in those Hyperborean waters; but these, be it observed, are
except under circumstances obvious to any fisherman.  I know that this would
excite the civil scepticism of some parlor men, is admirably correct and
exhibited
expect to go to, cook?
expected to pull his oar meanwhile to the uttermost; indeed, he is expected
experiment, that the blood of a Polar whale is warmer than that of a Borneo
extending the entire length of the upper part of the boat, and from its now
eye, those linear marks, as in a veritable engraving, but afford the ground
faded walnut tinge enveloped him; the overlapping sleeves of which were
fairly stepped upon there.  It may be worth while, therefore, previously to
fancied, that from the naked skeleton of the stranded whale, accurate hints
fasces of harpoons for spurs, would I could mount that whale and leap the
fat goose?  With a feather of the same fowl.  And with what quill did the
fat to be delicately good.  Look at his hump, which would be as fine eating
feelings that you do those of the shore.  For though some old naturalists have
feet of Korah and his company the live ground opened and swallowed them up for
feet.  But however prolonged and exhausting the chase, the harpooneer is
fell in with vast meadows of brit, the minute, yellow substance, upon which
fetched Elijah?  And fetch him where?  Up dere, said Fleece, holding his
fewer glimpses of porpoises, dolphins, flying-fish, and other vivacious
fifty fair chances for a dart, not five are successful; no wonder that so
fine, when considered with reference to its presenting the hardy fishermen
first boat always hovers at hand to assist its consort.  Second: This
first place, you are struck by the general contrast between these heads.
first time beholds this species of the leviathans of the sea.  And even when
five men to man his boat.  With them he pushed off; and, after
flaming ship; heart to heart they sank beneath the exulting wave; true to
flat, and its upper end considerably narrower than the lower.  This weapon
flexible bows, bent round, and bit their own; till those entrails seemed
floating in the sun, and the white spray heaving high against it;
floats more and more away, the water round it torn and splashed by the
foam; and the tall form of Tashtego at the steering oar crouching almost
for far other delineations.  These are hieroglyphical; that is, if you call
for his tail, take it to the capstan, and give him such a wrenching and
for lowering.  The four boats were soon on the water; Ahab's in advance, and
for the Fejee that salted down a lean missionary in his cellar against a
for the Jeroboam's whaling voyage.  They engaged him;
for the future, when you cook another whale-steak for my private table here,
for what is it that makes the front of a man --what, indeed, but his eyes?
for, indeed, the calm is but the wrapper and envelope of the storm; and
forged along, as if laden with pig-lead in bulk.  Darkness came on; but
forgetfulness altogether came over me, I had noticed that the seamen at the
former the lips and tongue are separately removed and hoisted on deck, with
forth prophecies of speedy doom to the sacrilegious assailants of his
found at home, immersed to his lips for life in those Arctic waters!  where,
foundations.  Where unrecorded names and navies rust, and untold hopes and
frequent interruptions from Gabriel, whenever his name was mentioned, and
frightful roll and vomit, he turned upon his back a corpse.  While the two
fro I idly swayed in what seemed an enchanted air.  No resolution could
from Starbuck's hands, he caught it in the slit of the pole, and reached it
from a bluff-bowed sluggish galliot into a sharp-pointed New York
from his mouth.  Like desperadoes they tugged and they strained, till the
from his trance into that unspeakable thing called his flurry, the monster
from rowing; the boat drifted a little towards the ship's stern; so that, as
from some lucky point of view you will catch passing glimpses of the profiles
from the attack of a Sperm Whaler like the Pequod, with open jaws sluggishly
from the bottom against the side of the tub, and hanging over its edge
from the sea-monster or whale.  Where did Guido get the model of such a
from the spiracle of the whale, and vehement puff after puff from the mouth
from within, even but of a little finger, the vibrating, cracking craft
frontispiece, boats attacking Sperm Whales, though no doubt calculated to
frosty weather; she trembles, quivers, and nods her frighted mast-heads to
full, and dare bellies is bottomless; and when dey do get em full, dey wont
full-grown bulls of the species.  A word or two more concerning this matter
full-lengths, the living Leviathan has never yet fairly floated himself for
furnishing a rest for the wooden extremity of the harpoon, whose other
gallery of living and breathing commotion on canvas, as in that triumphal
galley, for, like many old blacks, there was something the matter with his
general thing, and according to the great military maxim, make the enemy
gentle air impelling her keel, so that in the surrounding serenity her three
get it from an unquestionable source?  Bear with me if I seem to press."
getting the mass in readiness for towing, some conversation ensued between
ghost of a Fedallah saying so, and he seems to know all about ships' charms.
giant Holofernes's from the girdle of Judith.  When this last task was
gibbering insanity, pronouncing the White Whale to be no less a being than the
give it compactness and gloss.  Of late years the Manilla rope has in the
glassy level of a sea becalmed, the drooping unstarched sails of the
gleamed.  It seemed not a whale; and yet is this Moby Dick?  thought Daggoo.
glued in amber.  But more surprising is it to know, as has been proved by
go for it; but are you well advised?  this may grow too serious." "Will you
go on, go on.  Well, den, Belubed fellow-critters: -- Right!  exclaimed
god made him shark, said the savage, agonizingly lifting his hand up and
goin' ober de Roanoke.  Born in a ferry-boat!  That's queer, too.  But I want
going a whaling yourself; but by so doing, you run no small risk of being
golden finger laid across them, enjoining some secresy; when the slippered
good a one.  In the second engraving, the boat is in the act of drawing
governor, "What business is that of yours," says the devil, getting mad, --"I
gracious agency preserved me; with a shock I came back to life.  And lo!
grapes was swayed up to the main-top and firmly lashed to the lower mast-head,
grazes the main-top; the men at the windlass then cease heaving, and for a
great a trophy of human perseverance as a Latin lexicon.  For, with but a bit
great prophet; in their cracked, secret meetings having several times
grinning devils, and raise the buried dead perpendicular out of their graves,
grizzled head, as if to get both ears in front at one and the same time.
growled, angrily, turning round to depart.  Come back, cook; --here, hand me
habit accomplish? --Gayer sallies, more merry mirth, better jokes, and brighter
had at length become aware of his pursuers.  All silence of cautiousness was
half-inch white cedar of the whale-boat, when thus hung in hangman's nooses;
half-suspended mass, placed its other end crutch-wise under one arm, and so
hall at Versailles; where the beholder fights his way, pell-mell, through the
hand it to the boat, without its coming any closer to the ship.  Meantime, Ahab
hands.  Tumbled into the water, it accordingly is in such cases; the spare
hanging from the Pequod's side; and as we may freely go from one to the
harpoon and the lance, and no rowing whatever should be expected of him,
harpoon, by your side.
harpoon; but previous to that connexion, the short-warp goes through sundry
harpooneers of this world must start to their feet from out of idleness, and
harpoons reposing in the crotch, respectively called the first and second
has not perceptibly lost anything in bulk.  it is still colossal.  slowly it
have been rid of him; but apprised that that individual's intention was to
have connected with the sight of this object, certain it is, that a glimpse
have put it out of sight as soon as possible; you see that, don't you?  Well,
have so much to do with him for?  Striking up a swap or a bargain, I
have tried it.  For one, I cannot bawl very heartily and work very recklessly
having been stowed away on board ship?  He's the devil, I say.  The reason why
having plenty of line yet in the tubs, and the whale not sounding very
he cried at length, widening his legs still further, as if to form a more
he elevates it in the air, and invariably does so when going at his utmost
he never had the benefit of a whaling voyage (such men seldom have), but
he set himself forth as the deliverer of the isles of the sea and
he was studying it out, Starbuck took a long cutting-spade pole, and with his
he!  that's he!  the long-togged scaramouch the Town-Ho's company told us of!
he'll sneak off without the poor satisfaction of feeling his tail between his
head, and such the tapering cut-water formation of the lower part, that by
headsman should stay in the bows from first to last; he should both dart the
headsmen were engaged in making fast cords to his flukes, and in other ways
hear you den; for den dey sink in de sea, go fast to sleep on de coral, and
heave of the windlass is answered by a helping heave from the billows; till
heaving, that his tail will come short off at the stump --do you see; and
helmeted head like St.  George's; ever since then has something of the same
her bows, snapping and quivering; and so flinging off its drippings, that
her even keel; though sorely strained, you may well believe.  So, when on one
hidden beneath the loveliest tints of azure.  Consider also the devilish
hieroglyphic palisades on the banks of the Upper Mississippi.  Like those
high broken cliffs masses of rock lie strewn in fantastic groupings upon the
higher, and disentangling itself from the azure, at last gleamed before our
him again; and keep ducking him.  Suppose he should take it into his head to
him bodily into the air, so as to preserve all his mighty swells and
him is out of sight, like a launched line-of-battle ship; and out of that
him, I'll eat this whale in one mouthful.  But look sharp-- aint you all ready
him, i.  e.  what is called savagery.  Your true whale-hunter is as much a
himself could never pierce you out.  Again: as the profound calm which only
himself h.  durand.  one of them, though not precisely
his blubber is.  That blubber is something of the consistence of firm,
his congregation, with the other hand he solemnly flourished his tongs, and
his death his ghost becomes a powerless panic to a world.  Are you a believer
his eager glance in the direction indicated aloft by the outstretched
his face in the admiral's cabin again for a long while, let alone down in the
his feet, glaring
his flank, Stubb, firmly planting his knee in the clumsy cleat, darted dart
his head, so as to bring his best ear into play.  Cook, said Stubb, rapidly
his own Perseus Descending, make out one whit better.  The huge corpulence
his own order, he dashed the helm down before the helmsman could handle the
his portrait.  The living whale, in his full majesty and significance, is
his shrill voice, and cried -- Cussed fellow-critters!  Kick up de damndest
his small!  Here be it known, that though these wild fishermen do not, as a
his sounding had elapsed, the whale rose again, and being now in advance of
his vapory jet, the whale looked like a portly burgher smoking his pipe of a
his warm hammock at a most unseasonable hour, came shambling along from his
his wonderful patience of industry.  An ancient Hawaiian war-club or
hold upon the blubber, in order to prepare for what follows.  Whereupon, this
hold which the ship has upon the whale when moored alongside, is by the flukes
holding its place.  The boat now flew through the boiling water like a shark
holding the letter, muttered, Mr. Har--yes, Mr. Harry--(a woman's pinny hand,
hole, cook; but no, no, cook, you don't get there, except you go the
home.  Well, he was at home, and asked the devil what he wanted.  The devil,
honed, just like a razor.  In its socket, a stiff pole, from twenty to
hopeless to teach these fine things!  Of erections, how few are domed like St.
horribly wallowed in his blood, over-wrapped himself in impenetrable, mad,
hot springs and cold, Saratoga and Baden-Baden, come bubbling up from his
hours, say, on a stretch, little more than the skeleton would be visible by
human hand, minus only the thumb.  This fin has four regular bone-fingers,
humorous Stubb one day, he can never be truly said to handle us without
hundred and twenty pounds; so that the whole rope will bear a strain nearly
hundred feet long, it takes away your appetite.  Only the most unprejudiced
hung by the tail for knockers to the road-side door.  When the porter is
hurled.  Stern all!  The oarsmen backed water; the same moment something
idea may hence be had of the enormousness of that animated mass, a mere part
if I see anything very suspicious going on, I'll just take him by the nape
if by magic, the letter suddenly ranged along with Gabriel's eager hand.  He
igniting his pipe, for now a respite was granted.  After the full interval of
ignoble a leviathan.  Wants with it?  said Flask, coiling some spare line in
imagination, and all the preternatural terrors of real delirium, united to
impression.  He has but one picture of whaling scenes, and this is a sad
in Nantucket, and New Bedford, and Sag Harbor, you will come across lively
in a coil of rigging.  No doubt, and it's because of his cursed tail; he
in a slight festoon over the bows, and is then passed inside the boat again;
in battle among the clouds.  Thus at the North have I chased Leviathan round
in blood, which bubbled and seethed for furlongs behind in their wake.  The
in case a parcel is to be carried anywhere, or a dead slave to be decently
in case this intention was carried out.  So strongly did he work upon his
in full play, when every flying beam, and shaft, and wheel, is grazing you.
in general, is it possible to secure it again until the whale is fairly
in ghosts, my friend?  There are other ghosts than the Cock-Lane one, and far
in him; as if the sight of that dead body reminded him that Moby Dick was
in his wake, and causing the slight boat to rock in the swells like a skiff
in life the great whale's body may have been a real terror to his foes, in
in some details not the most correct, presentations of whales and whaling
in substance and its great items, true.  I know it to be true; it happened on
in that prow, for that one single incomputable flash of time, you behold an
in the Jeroboam's boat, was a man of a singular appearance, even in that wild
in the famous cavern-pagoda of Elephanta, in India.  The Brahmins maintain
in the log -- shoals, rocks, and breakers hereabouts: beware!  And for
in the prints of old Bibles and the cuts of old primers.  What shall be said
in the water like the capsized hull of a frigate, his broad, glossy back, of
in winter would bask before an inn fire; whereas, like man, the whale has
in-shore ground off Peru.  It was my turn to stand at the foremast-head; and
inch of water.  It has a sort of howdah on its back, and its distended tusked
indeed wrapt up in his blubber as in a real blanket or counterpane; or, still
indeed, requires uncommon discrimination.  And that is the reason why
indeed, they greatly resemble, being brown and crisp, and smelling
indite his circulars?  It is only within the last month or two that that
individual life had departed.  Killed and hoisted on deck for the sake of his
infants, as being exceedingly juicy and nourishing.  And this reminds me
inferior creatures; and though the Pequod was not commissioned to cruise for
inform us.  As for the sign-painters' whales seen in the streets hanging over
ingenious contrivances they elaborately carve out of the rough material, in
innumerable long arms radiating from its centre, and curling and twisting like
insatiate sharks, and the air above vexed with rapacious flights of screaming
inserted into the starboard gunwale near the bow, for the purpose of
insertion of the hook just above the nearest of the two side-fins.  This done,
instances than one, when the body has been recovered, not a single mark of
instantly after the other into the same whale; so that if, in the coming drag,
instantly at hand to its hurler, who snatches it up as readily from its rest
instead of containing gunpowder, was supposed to be charged with laudanum.  A
insult and murder him, and pulverize the stateliest, stiffest frigate he can
integrity) is being crunched by the jaws of the foremost whale.  Any time
integument yields such a lake of liquid as that.  Reckoning ten barrels to the
intemperately fond of the whale as a flavorish thing to his palate.  A steak,
interior of the sperm whale's enormous head consists.  Though apparently the
interlude, the seamen resumed their work upon the jacket of the whale, many
intervals; good evidence was hereby furnished of the enormousness of the mass
into direct contact with the Pequod.  But this did by no means prevent all
intricacies, and while straining his utmost at the oar, bethink him that at
invest this Gabriel in the minds of the majority of the ignorant crew, with
involuntarily yield the immense superiority to him, in point of pervading
iron hoops; this old Ebony floundered along, and in obedience to the word of
iron is already connected with the line, and the line is running, hence that
irons.  But these two harpoons, each by its own cord, are both connected with
is a common thing for the seamen to dip their ship-biscuit into the huge
is a curious chap, and a wicked one, I tell ye.  Why, they say as how he
is always kept as sharp as possible; and when being used is occasionally
is by reason of this cosy blanketing of his body, that the whale is enabled to
is considered that, in quantity, or rather weight, that oil, in its expressed
is going to live for ever, what good will it do to pitch him overboard --tell
is hoisted on deck to be deliberately disposed of.  But, with a full grown
is like being seated in the midst of the manifold whizzings of a steam-engine
is mainly observable in their heads; and as a head of each is this moment
is not his fault though.  Of the Right Whale, the best outline pictures are in
is not yet subsided; two thirds of the fair world it yet covers.  Wherein
is still fast, the long upper strip, called a blanket-piece, swings clear,
is, a vengeful ghost survives and hovers over it to scare.  Espied by some
it
it of an additional line from a neighboring boat, in case the stricken whale
it round the loggerhead, whence, by reason of its increased rapid circlings,
it sank, once more it slowly rose.  Almost forgetting for the moment all
it's Macey, and he's dead!  Poor fellow!  poor fellow!  and from his wife,
it, sent it thus loaded back into the ship.  It fell at Ahab's feet.  Then
it.  This peculiarity is strikingly evinced in the head, as in some part of
it; and if he makes any fuss, by the Lord I'll make a grab into his pocket
its tub.  Some harpooneers will consume almost an entire morning in this
its undashed pride of hull and spars.  Though elephants have stood for their
jaw?  Cannibals?  who is not a cannibal?  I tell you it will be more tolerable
jeopardy, he was going head out; that part obliquely projecting from the
junk at the rate of a mile an hour; but this grand argosy we towed heavily
just now, that you meant to give Fedallah a sea-toss, if you got a good
keels -- one cleaving the water, the other the air --as the boat churned
keep himself comfortable in all weathers, in all seas, times, and tides.
keep his hands off.  But what further depreciates the whale as a civilized
keep shouting at the top of one's compass, while all the other
kidnapping people; aye, and signed a bond with him, that all the people the
knee-pans, which he did not keep well scoured like his other pans; this old
knife slightly split the end, to insert the letter there, and in that way,
know how to cook a whale-steak yet.  Bress my soul, if I cook noder one, he
know that when the second iron is thrown overboard, it thenceforth becomes a
labelled with Hands off!  you cannot examine them closely enough to decide
laborious one; is not very soon completed; and requires all hands to set
lance (by the line attached to it), Stubb straightened it again and again,
land him in the first convenient port, the archangel forthwith opened all his
lantern, old Fleece limped across the deck to the bulwarks; and then, with
last, gush after gush of clotted red gore, as if it had been the purple lees
latitude and longitude of your first stand-point, else so chance-like are
leaning far over the side in a mumbling voice began addressing the sharks,
leaning over to it, by reason of the enormous downward drag from the lower
least so far as could be known on deck, Stubb, his second mate, flushed with
leaving behind them endless swaths of blue upon the yellow sea.
leaving so much as a widow.  That same ocean rolls now; that same ocean
leg, or entire body off, the utmost precaution is used in stowing the line in
legs.  And what will you do with the tail, Stubb?  Do with it?  Sell it for
length and breadth, of a glancing cream-color, lay floating on the water,
leviathan is rushing through the deep, leaving tons of tumultuous white curds
leviathan this is impossible; for the sperm whale's head embraces nearly one
life-like in its general effect.  Some of the Sperm Whale drawings in J. Ross
lifeless masses of rock than anything else.  And as in the great hunting
lifting a rather reddish morsel to his mouth, don't you think this steak is
like Ontario Indians on the gunwales of the boats,
like a mad battle steed that has lost its rider, the masterless ocean
like a mug of ale, as it were, from the one boat to the other; though the
like a pacing tiger in his cage.  Ka-la!  Koo-loo!  howled Queequeg, as if
like a rearing horse.  From the ship, the smoke of the torments of the boiling
like that chap, Stubb.  Did you ever notice how that tusk of his is a sort of
like the tapering tail of an anaconda, than the broad palms of the true
like the transparent, half-jellied, white meat of a cocoanut in the third
line.  An instant before, Stubb had swiftly caught two additional turns with
lines in his own hand.  And Ahab chanced so to stand, that the Parsee
little into the history and philosophy of it.  It is upon record, that three
live sea swallows up ships and crews.  But not only is the sea such a foe to
live upon whales, and have rare old vintages of prime old train oil.
lively lads with the pencil those Chinese are, many queer cups and saucers
lobes being withdrawn (precisely resembling two large puddings), they are
lodged in their fleshy covering, as the human fingers in an artificial
logger-head there, is again carried forward the entire length of the boat,
long sharp lance into the fish, and kept it there, carefully churning and
lookest hoary with mosses; speak, mighty head, and tell us the secret thing
loosened sails of the ship, and the long leaves of the palms in the
lungs and warm blood.  Freeze his blood, and he dies.  How wonderful is it
mad yeast which he brewed.  Start her, start her, my men!  Don't hurry
main and mizen mast-heads were already drowsy.  So that at last all three of
main-chains he took Stubb's long spade --still remaining there after the
main-masthead.  Aye?  Well, now, that's cheering, cried Ahab, suddenly
main-royal mast-head, was tossing one arm in frantic gestures, and hurling
maintained that all creatures of the land are of their kind in the sea; and
maintains the contrary, but all this is both foolish and unnecessary.  The
majority of failures in the fishery, it has not by any means been so much
make oughts enough.  but see here, stubb, i thought you a little boasted
make; nevertheless, by the continual repetition of these
man among her crew, some time previous when the Pequod spoke the Town-Ho.
man that ever murdered an ox was regarded as a murderer; perhaps he was hung;
man that is tossed to them; and though, while the valiant butchers over the
man who is an alien to it, but it is also a fiend to its own offspring;
man!  how far beyond all utterance are your linked analogies!  not the
man, however, was not of much practical use in the ship, especially as he
many hapless harpooneers are madly cursed and disrated; no wonder that some
many ship owners, whaling is but a losing concern; for it is the harpooneer
marks do not seem to be impressed upon the isinglass substance above
mast-head, and every yard-arm on that side projecting like a crane over the
mast-heads proved her a whale-ship.  but as she was so far to windward, and
master.  In one of those plates the whales, like great rafts of logs, are
mates; and since the epidemic had broken out, he carried a higher hand than
may be derived touching his true form.  Not at all.  For it is one of the more
me cutlets for supper to-morrow night in the mid-watch.  D'ye hear?  away you
me such a dreadful lie as you did just now, eh?  said Stubb.  Where do you
me that?  Give him a good ducking, anyhow.  But he'd crawl back.  Duck
me.  And beneath the effulgent Antarctic skies I have boarded the Argo-Navis,
mean no disparagement to the excellent voyager (I honor him for a veteran),
measureless self-deception of the fanatic himself, as his measureless power
men.  And all the while, jet after jet of white smoke was agonizingly shot
mention but one thing about it, let me say that it has an eye which applied,
mentioned, but seem to be seen through it, as if they were engraved upon the
mere skeleton of the whale bears the same relation to the fully invested and
microscopic diligence of a Leuwenhoeck submits to the inspection of a
midnight that steak was cut and cooked; and lighted by two lanterns of sperm
mind.
miniatures of narwhales and porpoises, treats us to a series of classical
mistakes in depicting the whale are not so very surprising after all.
mittens.  For all these reasons, then, any way you may look at it, you must
modern, especially in Pliny, Purchas, Hackluyt, Harris, Cuvier, etc.  But I
moment
moment, as slowly it subsided, and sank.  Then once more arose, and silently
moment, the old negro muttered, Best cooked 'teak I eber taste; joosy,
monster like brooks down a hill.  His tormented body rolled not in brine but
monster perpendicularly flitted his tail forty feet into the air, and then
month of its growth, yet far too rich to supply a substitute for butter. 
more character in the Sperm Whale's head.  As you behold it, you
more jovial spirits, than around a dead sperm whale, moored by night to a
more pliable to the rope-maker, and also renders the rope itself more
more soft and elastic; and I will add (since there is an aesthetics in all
morning.  In most other parts of the ocean, however, where these fish do not
morning.  Though, in overseeing the pursuit of this whale, Captain Ahab had
mortal woman, for the first time, seat himself amid those hempen
most conscientious compilations of Natural History for the benefit of the
most instances, prudently practicable.  But this critical act is not always
most massive, it is by far the most buoyant part about him.  So that with ease
mostly poor devils, cringed, and some of them fawned before him; in
motionless arm of Daggoo.  Whether the flitting attendance of the one still and
mouldy scraps of whales which had been left ashore after trying out the
mouth into which the billows are rolling, might be taken for the Traitors'
mouthful at the last word, so that that morsel seemed a continuation of the
movements, to pitch the second iron into him.  Nevertheless, as the second
much ado blindly to struggle out from that phrensied twilight into the clear
much nearer than another, but none can hit it with any very considerable
much of him; but when you come to sit down before a meat-pie nearly one
much weary pulling, and many perilous, unsuccessful onsets, he at last
murdering of the sharks, by striking the keen steel deep into their skulls,
muscles are strained and half started --what that is none know but those who
must be subjected; but as most seamen are beginning to learn, tar in general
must keep quiet.  Blast me, if I can hear my own voice.  Away, cook, and
muttered Ahab, which, though ungarnished with a beard, yet here and there
muttered.  And have you lived in this world hard upon one hundred years,
my supper.  Upon this, Fleece, holding both hands over the fishy mob, raised
mysterious creature, here spoken of, it is included among the class of
mystic rocks, too, the mystic-marked whale remains undecipherable.  This
mystifications too tedious to detail.  Thus the whale-line folds the whole
nailest geese to the ground and feastest on their bloated livers in thy
naked, barbed end slopingly projects from the prow.  Thereby the weapon is
nameless terror to the ship.  Mayhew having concluded his narration, Ahab put
necessary on two accounts.  First: In order to facilitate the fastening to
neck, as you may say.  Perhaps a very little thought will now enable you to
neck; on the contrary, where his head and body seem to join, there, in that
needs conclude that the great Leviathan is that one creature in the world
negro in summer.  It does seem to me, that herein we see the rare virtue of a
net-work has been achieved; and it has cost steady years of steady
nevertheless, upon stubb setting the anchor-watch after his supper was
night, it is not, as a general thing at least, customary to proceed at once
noiseless measureless leaves upon the sea.  A short space elapsed, and up into
noiseless sails being set.  Presently, as we thus glided in chase, the
nor should it be stayed but according to his good pleasure.  The sailors,
not an oar should be used, and no man must speak but in whispers.  So seated
not from out of toil.
not long left home, when upon speaking a whale-ship, her people were
not only incorrect, but the picture of the Mysticetus or Greenland whale
not the mightiest whale is free.  Nor is this the end.  Desecrated as the body
not unvexed subject, the skin of the whale.  I have had controversies about it
not very much of a concentrated one.  When the painted canvas cover is clapped
now on board the Pequod?
now take all the hoops in the Pequod's hold, and string 'em along in a row
nurtured among the crazy society of Neskyeuna Shakers, where he had been a
oars suspended, we were awaiting its reappearance, lo!  in the same spot where
oarsman's head; but the mate for ever sank.  It is well to parenthesize here,
oarsman, half shrouded by the incensed boiling spout of the whale, and in
obedience to his instructions, sometimes rendering him personal homage, as to
object.  When you see him 'quid, said the savage, honing his harpoon in the
obliquely elevating his head, he thereby may be said to transform himself
obscuring the swarming fowls, nevertheless still shows the white mass
occasion when you will find them in such countless numbers, and in gayer or
occupied his shadow; while, if the Parsee's shadow was there at all it seemed
ocean, that with Portuguese vengeance had whelmed a whole world without
of Stubb's hands, from which the hand-cloths, or squares of quilted canvas
of a burly-browed utilitarian old gentleman, with all Jeremy's other leading
of a common quill, prevents it from slipping out.  From the chocks it hangs
of affairs.  One small, helping cause of all this liveliness in Stubb, was
of affright; while in the black stormy distance the ship is bearing down upon
of broken sea-shell or a shark's tooth, that miraculous intricacy of wooden
of dead quadrupeds.  Does not that sight take a tooth out of the cannibal's
of deceiving and bedevilling so many others.  But it is time to return to the
of fowls, augment the murderous din.  For hours and hours from the almost
of his general shape.  Though Jeremy Bentham's skeleton, which hangs for
of his neck, and say --Look here, Beelzebub, you don't do
of his one poor jack-knife, he will carve you a bit of bone sculpture, not
of it being so very unusual, that circumstance has gone far to invest it with
of men like Stubb, nowadays partake of
of men which the sailor headed.  They embarked; and so for ever got the start
of one; the same line being continuously coiled in both tubs.  There is
of proportionate depth, makes a rather bulky freight for a craft whose planks
of red wine, shot into the frighted air; and falling back again, ran dripping
of sharks gather round the moored carcase, that were he left so for six
of ships.  No mercy, no power but its own controls it.  Panting and snorting
of that Hogarthian monster undulates on the surface, scarcely drawing one
of the Leviathan that but few supposed to be at this particular time lurking
of the Peace.  In addition to those fine engravings from Garnery, there are
of the excited headsman; as at every dart, hauling in upon his crooked
of the latter, yet that small section of him is all wrong.  It looks more
of the line in any way attached to the boat, and were the whale then to run
of the ocean; and that the sperm whale, unlike other species, is supplied
of the seas have ever been regarded with emotions unspeakably unsocial and
of the skin or blubber of the whale.  It has already been said, that it is
of the small dark slabs of the noble South Sea war-wood, are frequently met
of the swimming crew are scattered about the whale in contrasting expressions
of the whale as he actually appears to the eye of the whaleman when in his own
of the whale's skin.  In life, the visible surface of the Sperm Whale is not
of their former captain, had he been at all minded to work them legal
of them actually burst their blood-vessels in the boat; no wonder that some
of them, the twigs.  So, in productive subjects, grow the chapters.  The crotch
of these?  As for the book-binder's whale winding like a vine-stalk round the
of thousands of those who have gone upon the waters; though but a moment's
of whales defined along the undulating ridges.  But you must be a thorough
of whaling should have been there shadowed forth.  The Hindoo whale referred
of whose mere
official superior, quietly resigned to him for the time the sole management
often startled by the sharp slapping of their tails against the hull, within
oftentimes tumultuous and bursting sea.  Bear in mind, too, that under these
oil, Stubb stoutly stood up to his spermaceti supper at the capstan-head,
oil-pots and let them fry there awhile.  Many a good supper have I thus made.
old Dutch savage, Albert Durer.  Wooden whales, or whales cut in profile out
on a plain.  And still, at wide intervals in the silvery night, the lonely,
on her side; every bolt in her starts like the nail-heads of an old house in
on the american line-tub, the boat looks as if it were pulling off with a
on the coast of Mexico, August,
on through both opposing elements at once.  A continual cascade played at the
one dam Ingin.
one dense crowd at the windlass.  When instantly, the entire ship careens over
one hand dropping his light low over the sea, so as to get a good view of
one of the boats (presumed to contain the missing leg in all its original
one of the peculiar characteristics of the savage in his domestic hours, is
one of the saddest sights you can see.  The head looks a sort of reproachfully
one of thy officers, if I mistake not.  Starbuck, look over the bag.  Every
one should draw out, the other may still retain a hold.  It is a doubling of
only finished sketches at all capable of conveying the real spirit of the
only making a general prophecy, which any one might have done, and so have
only to be seen at sea in unfathomable waters; and afloat the vast bulk of
only to blend with, and lengthen Ahab's.  As the crew toiled on, Laplandish
opening of the seventh vial, which he carried in his vest-pocket; but, which,
operate from above, some eight or ten feet intervening between him and his
or cutting them, and making a prodigious sensation in all directions.  Nor,
or kink in the coiling would, in running out, infallibly take somebody's arm,
or layers of concentric spiralizations, without any hollow but the heart,
or minute vertical tube formed at the axis of the cheese.  As the least tangle
or tail; and as from its greater density that part is relatively heavier
or three years or more.  Soon Starbuck returned with a letter in his hand.  It
or two afterwards, Moby Dick was fairly sighted from the mast-heads, Macey,
or two the prodigious blood-dripping mass sways to and fro as if let down from
orange, so is it stripped off from the body precisely as an orange is
orders for securing it for the night, and then handing his lantern to a
organ imparts.  The whale, therefore, must see one distinct picture on this
orlop there, where he lives, and hereabouts on the upper decks where he
other like skrimshander articles, as the whalemen call the numerous little
other phenomena which the exterior of the Sperm Whale presents, he not
other respects, you can hardly regard any creatures of the deep with the same
other, by merely stepping across the deck: --where, I should like to know,
out into view; surging from side to side; spasmodically dilating and
out on the world from a sentry-box with two joined sashes for his window.
outermost enveloping layer of any animal, if reasonably dense, what can that
over obliquely crossed and re-crossed with numberless straight marks in thick
over towards the boat.  But as he did so, the oarsmen expectantly desisted
overruns the globe.  Consider the subtleness of the sea; how its most dreaded
own from his mouth, Stubb scattered the dead ashes over the water; and, for
own, so as to be able to tell a calf's head from their own heads; which,
packed in its maziness of design, as the Greek savage, Achilles's shield;
padded animal as the insect does to the chrysalis that so roundingly envelopes
paint to you as well as one can without canvas, something like the true form
painted green, and which no single man can possibly lift --this vast bunch of
paintings and engravings they have of their whaling scenes.  With not one
parallel to the Pequod, as she heavily forged through the sea (for by this
part of the regular linear appearance, by reason of numerous rude scratches,
particular whale he pursued; however this was, or whether his eagerness
parties; and though sharks also are the invariable outriders of all slave
parts, with the same sort of life that lives in a dog or a horse.  Indeed, in
pass that matter by.  i know of only four published outlines of the great Sperm
passages, in scenes hereafter to be painted.
patches of
pate-de-foie-gras.  But Stubb, he eats the whale by its own light, does he?
pepper and salt color of his head at the summit, giving token of advanced age
perceive the white mass, than with a quick intensity he instantly gave orders
perhaps, ships shun the place; leaping over it as silly sheep leap over a
perpendicularly frozen into the hearts of fields of ice, as a fly is found
personal characteristics; yet nothing of this kind could be inferred from
perspectives.  There's a most doleful and most mocking funeral!  The
pickle.  As for the ends of the flukes, have them soused, cook.  There, now
picture and not two to the brain; the peculiar position of the whale's eyes,
picture of the Sperm Whale.  Before showing that picture to any Nantucketer,
piercing shriek -- The vial!  the vial!  Gabriel called off the
pilot-boat.
pipe.  As the line passed round and round the loggerhead; so also, just
plain, you will often discover images as of the petrified forms of the
plains recumbent elephants without knowing them to be such, taking them for
planted as imperceptibly to blend their visual power, so as to produce one
play.  And still puffing at his pipe, Stubb cheered on his crew to the
point hard by its insertion into the skull.  Do you not marvel,
point of being brought with a deadly dash against the vessel's side.  But
point of junction with its broad flukes or lobes.
popular work Goldsmith's Animated Nature.  In the abridged London edition of
porpoise grant from the crown.  The fact is, that among his hunters at least,
portentousness.  So rarely is it beheld, that though one and all of them
possible wrinkles and twists.  In the English boats two tubs are used instead
powerless ship, and the inert mass of a dead whale, a conquered fortress,
precisely, that food consists.  At times, when closely pursued, he will
preposterous it may at first seem to talk of any creature's skin as being of
present day confidently challenge the faith of the landsman.  It is time to
previous chapter Colnett and Cuvier have been referred to.  Huggins's is far
previous to completely stripping the body of the leviathan, he was beheaded.
procedure notwithstanding, which, in some instances, only seems to tickle
proceeds of the voyage), yet now and then you find some of these Nantucketers
procured for every crystal a sworn affidavit taken before a Greenland Justice
prodigious great wedding-cake to present to the whales.  Both ends of the line
profound darkness and nothingness to him.  Man may, in effect, be said to look
prow like a snow-slide, new slid from the hills.  Thus glistening for a
published a Natural History of Whales, in which he gives what he calls a
publisher somewhere about the 15th century, during the Revival of Learning;
purely fabulous creature, imitated, I take it, from the like figures on
purporting to be sober, scientific delineations, by those who know.  In old
pushes off from the ship, with the headsman or whale-killer as temporary
puzzling question might be started concerning
pyramid of fat.  But the spermaceti itself, how bland and creamy that is;
pyramid.  Even Scoresby, the justly renowned Right whaleman, after giving us
quantity too much stiffen the whale-line for the close coiling to which it
quarrelsomely carving away under the table at the dead meat; and though, were
quarter-deck, he paused to gaze over the side, then slowly getting into the
question is, what and where is the skin of the whale?  Already you know what
question.  Where were you born, cook? 'Hind de hatchway, in ferry-boat,
quite a different affair: the ship hove-to upon the open sea, and in the
quite as workmanlike, but as close
quiver in him like a shaken jelly.  Yet habit --strange thing!  what cannot
ranging up for another fling.  The red tide now poured from all sides of the
rapidly, they paid out abundance of rope, and at the same time pulled with
rather overdone?  You've been beating this steak too much, cook; it's too
reach their mark; and many are only received after attaining an age of two
reach.  No perceptible face or front did it have; no conceivable token of
readily into the boat, and do not strain it so much; whereas, the American
reason.  Consider that the whale has nothing that can properly be called a
recognised at last, their immense magnitude renders it very hard really to
reflection into every face, so that they all glowed to each other like red
refused to work except when he pleased, the incredulous captain would fain
regular way, round by the rigging.  It's a ticklish business, but must be
regularly hunted by man.  To the Nantucketer, they present the two extremes of
reigned over the before tumultuous but now deserted deck.  An intense copper
reliably apprised of the existence of Moby Dick, and the havoc he had made.
remain incognita, though once high-ruffed Mendanna trod them and old Figuera
remembered by the reader in some subsequent scenes.  A curious and most
reminded one of mowers.  Seen from the mast-heads, especially when they paused
repartees, you never heard over your mahogany, than you will hear over the
repelling; though we know the sea to be an everlasting terra incognita, so
reply, raising some old war-whoop to the skies; as every oarsman in the
represented lying among ice-isles, with white bears running over their living
require a laborious re-discovery; like the Solomon islands, which still
resembling the thinnest shreds of isinglass, only it is almost as flexible
reservation that, until that time, anchor-watches shall be kept; that is,
responded to by the stranger's setting her own; which proved the ship to be
resting crosswise upon the loom or handle of every man's oar, so that it jogs
retribution.  Some ten days after the French ships sailed, the whale-boat
right whale's head hoisted up opposite that parmacetti's.  In good time,
rolled up on his wrists.  A deep, settled, fanatic delirium was in his eyes.
rope winding through these intricacies, was then conducted to the windlass,
round a table where red meat is being carved, ready to bolt down every killed
row as ever you can; fill your dam' bellies 'till dey bust --and den die.
rowing, but by repeated loud and intrepid exclamations; and what it is to
ruefully contemplating his own amputation.  Throughout the Pacific, and also
said for some moments, while a succession of riotous waves rolled by, which
sail, then. --Halloa!  stop!  make a bow before you go. --Avast heaving again!
sailor friend runs risk of the archiepiscopacy.  Let us withdraw more out of
sailors say) holding a painted board before him, representing the tragic
same preliminary proceedings commonly take place as in the case of a sperm
same thing, that is to say, a shocking sharkish business enough for all
sank out of sight like a tower swallowed up.  There go flukes!  was the cry,
savage as an Iroquois.  I myself am a savage; owning no allegiance but to the
scene in which he lost his leg.  There are three whales and three boats; and
scenes to be anywhere found, are two large French engravings, well executed,
schooner, he returned with them to his vessel; and finding all right there,
scientific dash at the mass, and with a few sidelong, desperate, lunging
scientific predecessor in the same field, Desmarest, got one of his
scrape off with your hand an infinitely thin, transparent substance, somewhat
screw.  Though amid all the smoking horror and diabolism of a sea-fight,
scrougin' and slappin' each oder, Massa Stubb; dey don't hear one word; no
sea and the land; and do you not find a strange analogy to something in
sea, he swam back to his comrades.  Watching the boat till it was fairly
sea-vultures all in pious mourning, the air-sharks all punctiliously in
sea; the wooden poles of the spilled harpoons obliquely bob in it; the heads
seals and vials -- devoting the ship and all hands to unconditional perdition,
seaman, went his way into the cabin, and did not come forward again until
secret seas have hitherto revealed to mankind.  A vast pulpy mass, furlongs in
secure base for his supper; and, at the same time darting his fork into the
securing him.  Didn't I tell you so?  said Flask; yes, you'll soon see this
see them (as before you heard them) wallowing in the sullen, black waters,
seem entirely content with presenting the mechanical outline of things, such
seemed the Sphynx's in the desert.  Speak, thou vast and venerable head,
seemed to lurk in their very joints and bones, after what might be called the
seemingly their only vital part.  But in the foamy confusion of their mixed
seems all but miraculous.  How, at such an apparently unassailable surface,
seen Moby Dick and fought him, than to have seen thee, thou white ghost!
seen enough to split the planets and make an infidel of Abraham, and not one
seethingly advance their scythes through the long wet grass of marshy meads;
seizing the picturesqueness of things seems to be peculiarly evinced in what
seldom displays the back, and more especially his flanks, effaced in great
seldom remarkable as faithful essays.  On the spires of some old-fashioned
self-adjusting buoyancy and simultaneousness of volition and action, can you
serpents.  And thus the work proceeds; the two tackles hoisting and lowering
set the world right in this matter, by proving such pictures of the whale all
several harpoons to bend on to the line should the first one be ineffectually
several pictures of the different species of the Leviathan.  All these are
shall now go back to the subject of this steak.  In the first place, how old
shark dood right as toder to dat whale?  And, by Gor, none on you has de right
sharks will be seen longingly gazing up to the ship's decks, like hungry dogs
sharks, sartin; but if you gobern de shark in you, why den you be angel; for
ship, the Jeroboam's boat by the occasional use of its oars contrived to keep
ships crossing the Atlantic, systematically trotting alongside, to be handy
ships of the American Whale Fleet have each a private signal; all which
shivering world ninety-six fac-similes of magnified Arctic snow crystals.  I
shooting by, apparently making a passage to some other ground, the Pequod
should sound so deep as to threaten to carry off the entire line originally
shrieked out to his comrades to give way with their oars, and in that manner
side --about half way out of the sea, so that it might yet in great part be
side you hoist in Locke's head, you go over that way; but now, on the other
side, and another distinct picture on that side; while all between must be
side, hoist in Kant's and you come back again; but in very poor plight.
side, where fluke chains and other necessaries were already prepared for
side-ladder was being rigged by Starbuck's order to accommodate the visiting
sideboard; now then, go and preach to 'em!  Sullenly taking the offered
sighed Mayhew; but let me have it.  Nay, keep it thyself, cried Gabriel to
sight dragging after it the disengaged semicircular end of the first strip of
sights, to have looked over her side that night, would have almost thought
signals being collected in a book with the names of the respective vessels
silent, subtle, ever-present perils of life.  And if you be a philosopher,
silently serpentines about the oarsmen before being brought into actual play --
simultaneously dangling about him.  For, of course, each boat is supplied with
simultaneously; both whale and windlass heaving, the heavers singing, the
since those inventive but unscrupulous times when on the marble panellings of
sketches of whales and whaling-scenes, graven by the fishermen themselves on
skill, and however much, in a flattering future, that science and skill may
skin of a new-born child.  But no more of this.  Assuming the blubber to be the
skin of the skin, so to speak; for it were simply ridiculous to say, that
skin of the whale; then, when this skin, as in the case of a very large
skin, one of these sharks almost took poor Queequeg's hand off, when he
skylarking; how can Fedallah do that?  I don't know, Flask, but the devil
slanting sun playing upon this crimson pond in the sea, sent back its
sleepy, the anvil-headed whale would be best.  But these knocking whales are
slept by many a sailor's side, where sleepless mothers would give their lives
slicings, severs it completely in twain; so that while the short lower part
slightly vapored with tar, not impregnated with it, as in the
smacking his lips over a mouthful of Grenadier's steak.  And thus with oars
smacking of his own epicurean lips.  Cook, cook! --where's that old Fleece?
smackingly feasted on its fatness.  The few sleepers below in their bunks were
small bellies; so dat de brigness ob de mout is not to swallar wid, but to
small, short, youngish man, sprinkled all over his face with freckles, and
smallest atom stirs or lives on matter, but has its cunning duplicate in
sneaks so much.  Damn the devil, Flask; do you suppose I'm afraid of the
so largely abound, their wondrous voracity can be at times considerably
society passed a resolution to patronize nothing but steel pens.
solemn figure.  "Let me remove my hat.  Now, venerable priest, further into
solitary jet had gradually worked upon Ahab, so that he was now prepared to
some advantage in this; because these twin-tubs being so small they fit more
some enchanter's wand, the sleepy ship and every sleeper in it all at once
some way ahead; but would be soon skilfully brought to her proper bearings
somehow and somewhere; else the most terrible jeopardy would involve all
something like old Amsterdam housewives' dough-nuts or oly-cooks, when fresh.
something over two hundred fathoms.  Towards the stern of the boat it is
sometimes carries on his pestilent back.  And all the while the thick-lipped
sometimes involve a slight loss of speed in the chase; but long experience in
sometimes pleased myself with fancying it exerted a magnifying influence.  At
sometimes stripped by spiralizing it.  For the strain constantly kept up by
sometimes worn at these times, had accidentally dropped.  It was like holding
somewhat resembling calves' head, which is quite a dish among some epicures;
somewhat slackened his flight.  Haul in --haul in!  cried Stubb to the
soon made strangely manifest.  Stubb was a high liver; he was somewhat
sort of license prevailed, not only in most popular pictures of the whale,
sort our noble profession
sort, and then he'll surrender Moby Dick.  Pooh!  Stubb, you are
soul of man there lies one insular Tahiti, full of peace and joy, but
sound it slowly disappeared again, Starbuck still gazing at the agitated
spear-paddle, in its full multiplicity and elaboration of carving, is as
species of whales find their food above water, and may be seen by man in the
speculations were bandied among them, concerning all these passing things.
speed.  Besides, such is the breadth of the upper part of the front of his
sperm whalemen are absent four years with four barrels; no wonder that to
spirally coiled away in the tub, not like the worm-pipe of a still though,
spoke.  start her, now; give 'em the long and strong stroke, tashtego.
spokes.  The sudden exclamations of the crew must have alarmed the whale; and
spout-hole.
staggering business truly in that rocking commotion.  From the vibrating line
started into wakefulness; and more than a score of voices from all parts of
starts to run, the boat-header and harpooneer likewise start to running fore
state, is only three fourths, and not the entire substance of the coat; some
stationary ship that hideous sight is seen.  Beneath the unclouded and mild
steady, common sense exterior and offered himself as a green-hand candidate
steak cooked as it should be?  Take it, I say --holding the tongs towards him
steersman, and the harpooneer or whale-fastener pulling the foremost oar,
step with his tongs, which, after a clumsy fashion, were made of straightened
stick of a peculiar form, some two feet in length, which is perpendicularly
stiletto-like cry that startled every man from his nod, the negro yelled out
stillness almost preternatural spread over the sea, however unattended with
stock of a descending anchor --as stamped and gilded on the backs and
stood leaning over with eyes attentively fixed on this head.  It was a black
stories of them which are to be found in certain books, both ancient and
stoven and sunk!  Beware of the horrible tail!  I tell thee again, Gabriel,
straightway the whale's unharming corpse, with trembling fingers is set down
strained boat involuntarily bounced forward with the one tremendous leading
stranded fish; and these are about as correct as a drawing of a wrecked ship,
strange creature as that?  Nor does Hogarth, in painting the same scene in
strange things were hinted in reference to this wild affair.
strange, apostolic whim having seized him, he had left Neskyeuna for
strike the first iron into the fish; for often, in what is called a long
stript from him in long pieces, called blanket-pieces.  Like most sea-terms,
striving to wrest it out of your clutch.  Wet the line!  wet the line!  cried
stroke which the eager Indian gave.
struggle was intensely critical; for while they still slacked out the
stubb to the tub oarsman (him seated by the tub) who, snatching off his hat,
stump-speech does the poor whaleman make; but, with downcast eyes, stands
subject, and that subject almost hidden in a discolored, rolling, and
substance, and then partaking of it.  In the long try watches of the night it
subterraneous manner, without so much as getting one single peep into the
succeeded in getting one iron fast.  Meantime, Gabriel, ascending to the
successful, then at the second critical instant, that is, when the whale
such an audacious enterprise, eight or ten loose second irons may be
such dried bits, which I use for marks in my whale-books.  It is
such observations of the hills, that your precise, previous stand-point would
such questions to him, that the stranger captain could not forbear inquiring
sudden roll of the sea, the little craft stands half-erect out of the water,
sudden slap on the shoulder, -- Cook!  why, damn your eyes, you mustn't swear
suddenly going down in a maelstrom, within three rods of the planks, he
suddenly in the distance, they saw a great heap of tumultuous white water,
suit," cried the company, with exceeding interest.  "Is there a copy of the
sullenly.  And you have once in your life passed a holy church in Cape-Town,
superficial western one; though, by vast odds, the most terrific of all mortal
supper cooking in the great bowels below.  Sea fowls are pecking at the small
suppose that that devil you was speaking of just now, was the same you say is
suppose.  Bargain? --about what?  Why, do ye see, the old man is hard bent
suspending the cutting stages over the side, and lowering three lanterns, so
swallowed over and over again by the same mouth, to be oppositely voided by
swam through the brit, which, adhering to the fringing fibres of that wondrous
swarming-time the bees rush to the boughs.  Bare-headed in the sultry sun,
swings, else it may box his ears and pitch him headlong overboard.  One of
switching his hoofs, up and says, "I want John." "What for?" says the old
syllable is thine!  Sail ho!  cried a triumphant voice from the
symmetry in the Sperm Whale's which the Right Whale's sadly lacks.  There is
tackles, among other ponderous things comprising a cluster of blocks generally
tall tapering masts mildly waved to that languid breeze, as three mild palms
temples, the pedestals of statues, and on shields, medallions, cups, and
temporarily taking the breath out of the bodies of the oarsmen.  Next instant,
tender.  Don't I always say that to be good, a whale-steak must be tough?
tenth of England's experience in the fishery, and not the thousandth part of
tents really lie encamped beyond my mortal sight!
terrific wreck of the stoven planks.  The prow of the boat is partially
terror, skittishly curvetting about both boat and whale, entangling the lines,
terror-stricken crew from the further hunting of the whale.  This terrible
than any other (excepting the side-fins), its flexibility even in death,
than if he were stealing upon you from behind.  In a word, you would have two
that Columbus sailed over numberless unknown worlds to discover his one
that Gabriel had the complete freedom of the ship.  The consequence of all
that a Right Whale should be captured that day, if opportunity offered.  Nor
that almost omnipotent tool of the sailor, they will turn you out anything
that certain Englishmen, who long ago were accidentally left in Greenland by
that destroyed him.  "Are you through?" said Don Sebastian, quietly.  "I am,
that escaped at the lip.  As morning mowers, who side by side slowly and
that has caused them.  To insure the greatest efficiency in the dart, the
that head upon which the upper sun now gleams, has moved amid this world's
that his precise expression the devil himself could not catch.  But it may be
that in disposition answers to the sagacious kindness of the dog?  The
that in the almost endless sculptures of that immemorial pagoda, all the
that is in thee.  Of all divers, thou hast dived the deepest.
that mainmast there?  pointing to the ship; well, that's the figure one;
that makes the voyage, and if you take the breath out of his body how can
that name as the Banks of Newfoundland do, because of there being shallows
that of the Americans, they have nevertheless furnished both nations with the
that poured from the smitten rock.  At last his spout grew thick, and with a
that purpose.  Your hat, however, is the most convenient.
that sort of consistence and thickness, yet in point of fact these are no
that stump to an incredulous world.  But the time of his justification has now
that the great Kraken of Bishop Pontoppodan may ultimately resolve itself into
that they performed a complete circuit.  Meantime, they hauled more and more
that thinking after all he might not as yet be alarmed, Ahab gave orders that
that to the timid eye of the landsman, they seem as Indian jugglers, with
that way when you're preaching.  That's no way to convert sinners, Cook!
that way, and to my breezelessness bring his breeze!  O Nature, and O soul of
that you can derive anything like a truthful idea of the living whale as seen
that your heart, there? --that's your gizzard!  Aloft!  aloft! --that's it --now
that, Mr. Flask?  How old do you suppose Fedallah is, Stubb?  Do you see
that, in the old Dutch fishery, a mop was used to dash the running line with
that-- But again the boat tore ahead as if dragged by fiends.  Nothing was
the
the Evangelists," said Don Sebastian, gravely, returning with a tall and
the Jeroboam of Nantucket.  Squaring her yards, she bore down, ranged abeam
the Pequod's crew could hardly resist the spell of sleep induced by such a
the Pole with the revolutions of the bright points that first defined him to
the Right Whale largely feeds.  For leagues and leagues it undulated round us,
the Spermaceti Whale Fisheries.  In this book is an outline purporting to be
the Squid was a thing of portents, to Queequeg it was quite a different
the White Whale!  Upon this, the seamen rushed to the yard-arms, as in
the act of leaping, as if from a precipice.  The action of the whole thing is
the admiral's cabin, don't you suppose he can crawl into a port-hole?  Tell me
the attending harpooneers now advances with a long, keen weapon called a
the beheaded whale flashes like a marble sepulchre; though changed in hue, it
the bigness of a man's spread hand; and in general shape, corresponds to
the boat's bow, did you never hear that the ship which but once has a Sperm
the bows, it continues its way to the gunwale still a little further aft,
the capstan, I'll tell you what to do so as not to spoil it by overdoing.
the chances.  But it very often happens that owing to the instantaneous,
the chief mate, burned with ardor to encounter him; and the captain himself
the crazy sea that seemed leagued with him.  It seemed that the Jeroboam had
the creature that feeds his lamp, and, like Stubb, eat him by his own light,
the cry from the ship to the boats, which, for one instant, seemed on the
the day of judgment, than for thee, civilized and enlightened gourmand, who
the deadliest snakes sportively festooning their limbs.  Nor can any son of
the devil didn't give John the Asiatic cholera before he got through with
the drops fell like bits of broken glass on the water, while the whale
the extreme pointed prow of the boat, where a wooden pin or skewer the size
the eye of that whale a bow-window some five feet long.  Ah, my gallant
the falling form of Macey, was plainly descried from the ship.  Raising a
the fish's flank.  When reaching far over the bow, Stubb slowly churned his
the fish, be sure you stand by to get the tips of his fins; have them put in
the fish.  And now it is struck; for, starting
the gaping wound.  Nor was this all.  It was unsafe to meddle with the corpses
the garden implement after which it is named; only its sides are perfectly
the hieroglyphics upon one Sperm Whale in particular, I was much struck with
the index, middle, ring, and little finger.  But all these are permanently
the jungle overlays her own cubs, so the sea dashes even the mightiest whales
the largest sized Evangelists you can." "This is the priest, he brings you
the least among the many marvels he presents.  Almost invariably it is all
the light, and hold the Holy Book before me that I may touch it."
the line out to the end almost in a single, smoking minute as he sometimes
the line; the object being this: to dart them both, if possible, one
the luckless mate, so full of furious life, was smitten bodily into the air,
the main body of the crew striking up a wild chorus, now commence heaving in
the monster to which these arms belonged ordinarily clings by them to the bed
the moonlight.  I see no need for this." "Excuse me for running after you,
the most vague ideas concerning its true nature and form;  notwithstanding,
the mutinous boat rapidly shot away from the Pequod.  As, after this
the night, which obscured the spars and rigging aloft, the two --ship and
the north, if unsupplied with his cosy surtout?  True, other fish are found
the old black, not in any very high glee at having been previously routed from
the old black, with both hands placed as desired, vainly wriggling his
the one known as the harpooneer-oar.  Now it needs a strong, nervous arm to
the other, without the slightest warning; and only by a certain
the other?  Preternatural terrors rested upon the Hebrews, when under the
the placing of the cap-sheaf to all this blundering business was reserved for
the present other matters press, and the best we can do now for the head, is
the profundities of the ocean, and bearing high in the air upon his back the
the proper skin of the tremendous whale is thinner and more tender than the
the proper word to use in the present connexion.  By my retentive memory of
the scaramouch in question had gained a wonderful ascendency over almost
the scene.  Serious fault might be found with the anatomical details of this
the scientific Frederick Cuvier, brother to the famous Baron.  In
the ship.  The boats were here hailed, to tow the whale on the larboard
the shops of oil-dealers, what shall be said of them?  They are generally
the side fin, the bones of which almost exactly answer to the bones of the
the sky, and every one present must take good heed to dodge it when it
the sky.  More and more she leans over to the whale, while every gasping
the smoker's boat, and much nearer to it than to any of the others, Stubb
the speed of the whale as the before described exhaustion of the harpooneer
the sperm whale's head, now, by the counterpoise of both heads, she regained
the story of your obstinate survival of old beliefs never bottomed on the
the upper end of the line is taken aft from the tub, and passing round the
the vessel, simultaneously with the three notes from aloft, shouted forth the
the western clearings.  But, though for ever mounted on that stump, never a
the whale of the bigness of a human head.  This particular feat of the shark
the whale really looks like.  And the only mode in which you can derive even a
the whale would by all hands be considered a noble dish, were there not so
the whale's eyes corresponds to that of a man's ears; and you may fancy, for
the whale.  Pull up --pull up!  he now cried to the bowsman, as the waning
the whole round sea was one huge cheese, and those sharks the maggots in it.
the windlass continually keeps the whale rolling over and over in the water,
their hours of ocean leisure.  Some of them have little boxes of
their indolent crests; and across the wide trance of the sea, east nodded to
them at all, and though she had passed numbers of them near the Crozetts
them have any but
them into still greater activity.  But it was not thus in the present case
them.  I wonder what the old man wants with this lump of foul lard, said
then --except after explanation --that this great monster, to whom corporeal
then mixed with flour, and cooked into a most delectable mess, in flavor
then they change places; and the headsman, the chief officer of the little
then, I rather guess when he finds himself docked in that queer fashion,
then, at Stubb's boast, that he demanded but ten minutes to behead a sperm
there, my civilized and enlightened gourmand dining off that roast beef,
there?  Well, then, pull ahead, and let's get the whale alongside.  I think
therefore no longer of use.  Paddles were dropped, and oars came loudly into
these qualities in him, as well as to the thousand concurring accidents of
these ten years, they tell me, has that man held up that picture, and
these thunder-heads overboard, and then you will float light and right.  In
these unprofessional attempts, let us glance at those pictures of leviathan
they are so elevated, and besides that are to all intents and purposes so
they believe it to furnish to the sperm whale his only food.  For though other
they contrive to gouge out such symmetrical mouthfuls, remains a part of the
they most piously do pounce.  Oh, horrible vultureism of earth!  from which
thickness.  At first sight, you would not think it so strong as it really is.
thigh-board, in which the headsman stands, is torn from its place and
thin, isinglass substance, which, I admit, invests the entire body of the
thing of the sea, and eat it too by its own light.  But no doubt the first
things), is much more handsome and becoming to the boat, than hemp.  Hemp is
third of his entire bulk, and completely to suspend such a burden as that,
thirty feet long, is inserted for a handle.
this ball; I trod the ship; I knew the crew; I have seen and talked with
this book will be incidentally shown.  It is also very curiously displayed in
this book-binder's fish an attempt at a whale; because it was so intended
this dangerous affair.  But why say more?  All men live enveloped in
this difficulty is ingeniously overcome: a small, strong line is prepared
this nineteenth century such a hippogriff could be palmed for genuine upon any
this noiselessness came Ahab alone from his cabin.  Taking a few turns on the
this one is very happy and significant.  For the whale is
this was, that the archangel cared little or nothing for the captain and
this, of course, must wholly separate the impressions which each independent
those mysterious cyphers on the walls of pyramids hieroglyphics, then that is
those rocks must not a little resemble the Sperm Whale in this particular.  It
those tongs; --now take that bit of steak there, and tell me if you think that
though seated in the whale-boat, you would not at heart feel one whit more of
though taking a broad general view of the thing, this may very well be; yet
though this sculpture is half man and half whale, so as only to give the tail
thoughts of Moby Dick, we now gazed at the most wondrous phenomenon which the
thousand red oxen to the sea gods.  In the first place, the enormous cutting
three lights up and down in the Pequod's main-rigging dimly guided our way;
three or four sailor tarts, that is whaleboats full of mariners: their
three whales in various attitudes, capping his second chapter.  His
through the main hatchway right beneath, into an unfurnished parlor called the
thumbs and fingers, slowly toiled hour after hour upon that inert, sluggish
thunder-claps,  that's all, cried Stubb, spluttering out the smoke as he
thus annihilated; oftener the boat's bow is knocked off, or the
thus cannibally carving each other's live meat with carving-knives all gilded
thus exhibited exceeding twenty and thirty feet in length.  They fancy that
thy most familiar home.  Thou hast been where bell or diver never went; hast
tightened line in one direction, and still plied their oars in another, the
till drawing nearer we saw Ahab dropping one of several more lanterns over the
time it blew very fresh), with her main-topsail aback; though, indeed, at
time, a certain cook of the court obtained a handsome reward for inventing an
times by the sudden onset of a large rolling wave, the boat would be pushed
timid man-of-war or blundering discovery-vessel from afar, when the distance
title-pages of many books both old and new --that is a very picturesque but
to Captain Mayhew, who stood in the boat's stern; come on board.  But now
to be any way maltreated, say or do what he would; so that it came to pass
to dat whale; dat whale belong to some one else.  I know some o' you has
to fly.  But the fagged whale abated his speed, and blindly altering his
to help demselves.  Well done, old Fleece!  cried Stubb, that's
to know what country you were born in, cook?  Didn't I say de Roanoke
to lay them down.  Thou saw'st the locked lovers when leaping from their
to pray heaven the tackles may hold.  Now, during the past night and forenoon,
to quicken the activity of the excited seamen.
to rock.  By and by, through the glass the stranger's boats and manned
to seem inelegant, but this unsightly whale looks much like an amputated sow;
to set an example of superhuman activity to the rest, not only by incredible
to such a sight again, you must be sure and take the exact intersecting
to the London docks, you may have seen a crippled beggar (or kedger, as the
to the business of cutting him in.  For that business is an exceedingly
to the magnitude of the head.  Now, from this peculiar sideway position of the
to wave his orders to the helmsman, cast
to!  I mean when you die, cook.  It's an awful question.  Now what's your
to, occurs in a separate department of the wall, depicting the incarnation of
together our own.  Of the grand order of folio leviathans, the Sperm Whale and
token of that proceeding being entirely unnecessary.  It turned out that the
told him if Gabriel was sent from the ship, not a man of them would remain.
tolerable idea of his living contour, is by
ton, you have ten tons for the net weight of only three quarters of the stuff
tongs straight over his head, and keeping it there very solemnly.  So, then,
tongs, cook, and hear my orders.  Do ye hear?  Hold your hat in one hand, and
topmost skies, to see whether the fabled heavens with all their countless
touching that species, declares not to have its counterpart in nature.  But
touching the set terms, places, and occasions, when sharks do most socially
towers between them like a great mountain separating two lakes in valleys;
town-crier would ever find her again.  Before lowering the boat for the chase,
trades and pursuits, every conceivable avocation of man, were prefigured ages
transparent, as I said before; and being laid upon the printed page, I have
traveller is continually girdled by amphitheatrical heights; here and there
tried to shut down the dead lid of his murderous jaw.  Queequeg no care what
true.  Nor is the history of fanatics half so striking in respect to the
try it; I'd give him such a pair of black eyes that he wouldn't dare to show
tub, nearly three feet in diameter and
turn round on his centre half way, seize his harpoon from the crotch, and
turn to this green, gentle, and most docile earth; consider them both, the
two and two for an hour, each couple, the crew in rotation shall mount the
two boats were slowly advancing with their burden towards the ship, but I
two great whales, laying their heads together; let us join them, and lay
two mariners, darting their long whaling-spades, kept up an incessant
two other French engravings worthy of note, by some one who subscribes
unattended with the saddest and most fatal casualties.  Furthermore: you must
unbroken, and is drawn just balancing upon the monster's spine; and standing
under one of their few aspects of oriental repose.  The other engraving is
under the Pequod's lee, and lowered a boat; it soon drew nigh; but, as the
undulating in the trough of the sea, and ever and anon tranquilly spouting
undulations.  And, not to speak of the highly presumable difference of
unearthly, formless, chance-like apparition of life.  As with a low sucking
unexhausted brain.  In the title-page of the original edition of the
unharmed --while swift lightnings shivered the neighboring ship that would have
universal cannibalism of the sea; all whose creatures prey upon each other,
universal problem of all things.  The mark they thus leave on the whale, may
untoward circumstances he has to cut many feet deep in the flesh; and in that
unwonted bustle was he in that the staid Starbuck, his
upon the old man, and vehemently exclaimed, with downward pointed finger
upon the whale, and essaying to get a fair chance for his poised lance, lo!
upon their lines, till close flanking him on both sides, Stubb answered
upon their merit.  In bony, ribby regions of the earth, where at the base of
upwards and backwards from the whale, and the triumphant tackle rises into
us lifelessly swung from the spars, and for every swing that we made there
use a-preachin' to such dam g'uttons as you call 'em, till dare bellies is
use; three oarsmen are just setting the mast in its hole; while from a
used by whalemen in hunting the famous Gallipagos terrapin.
vacant sea.  For this part of the Indian Ocean through which we then were
vacuum, because their leader originally leaped there when a stick was held.
van, still encouraged his men to the onset, all the while puffing the smoke
various whalemen of more than one nation has convinced me that in the vast
vast white headless phantom floats further and further from the ship, and
very curious touches at the whale, where all manner of spouts, jets d'eau,
very heart of the Leviathanic life, with a Right Whale alongside; the vessel
very impressions, man has lost that sense of the full awfulness of the sea
very place, is the thickest part of him.  Remember, also, that the surgeon must
vicar-general of all Oceanica.  The unflinching earnestness with which he
viciously snapped, not only at each other's disembowelments, but like
violence is discernible; the man being stark dead.  The whole calamity, with
violent scraping contact with vast floating icebergs --I should say, that
violent, convulsive running of the whale upon receiving the first iron, it
virtue of interior spaciousness.  Oh, man!  admire and model thyself after the
visible sphere a strange spectre was seen by Daggoo from the main-mast-head.
vision in advance of the straight side-line of sight; and about thirty more
voyaging is not what whalemen call a lively ground; that is, it affords
want to use him." "Take him," says the governor --and by the Lord, Flask, if
warm afternoon.  But that pipe, poor whale, was thy last.  As if struck by
warmth is as indispensable as it is to man; how wonderful that he should be
was a nod from below from the slumbering helmsman.  The waves, too, nodded
was exceedingly still and sultry, and with nothing special to engage them,
was fearful of infecting the Pequod's company.  For, though himself and boat's
was sorely tumbled, damp, and covered with a dull, spotted, green mould, in
was this long wanting.  Tall spouts were seen to leeward; and two boats,
water; in many other ships, a wooden piggin, or bailer, is set apart for
waters where it had sunk, with a wild voice exclaimed -- Almost rather had I
waves whispered together as they softly ran on; in this profound hush of the
waves; there, that blood-dripping head hung to the Pequod's waist like the
we commenced the slow business of towing the trophy to the Pequod.  And now,
we moved.  For, upon the great canal of Hang-Ho, or whatever they call it, in
we swiftly but silently paddled along; the calm not admitting of the
weapon must, at all events, be anticipatingly tossed out of the boat,
wearing mourning for the devil?  And if the devil has a latch-key to get into
wearing redundant yellow hair.  A long-skirted, cabalistically-cut coat of a
ween, if peradventure he had needed it; but upon the banquet of his funeral
welcome cry was heard -- Stand up, Tashtego! --give it to him!  The harpoon was
went a sauntering into the old flag-ship once, switching his tail about
went hot and hissing along every one of their wrists.  It was the magical
went out of my body; though my body still continued to sway as a pendulum
went, while the multitudes of sharks that had before swum round the Sperm
were popularly supposed to be a species of the Leviathan.  In the vignettes
were preparing to cast anchor in the deep; for heavy chains are being dragged
were providentially in want of precisely that number
west, and the sun over all.  Suddenly bubbles seemed bursting beneath my
whale hunt.  For the most part, the English and American whale draughtsmen
whale is going up like the smoke over a village of smithies; and to
whale might have swallowed, and which he was fearful of breaking ere he
whale relaxed in his wrath.  Pull up! --close to!  and the boat ranged along
whale with perpendicular flukes.  Then again, there is an imposing quarto,
whale!  Do thou, too, remain warm among ice.  Do thou, too, live in this world
whale's decapitation --and striking it into the lower part of the
whale's eyes is a thing always to be borne in mind in the fishery; and to be
whale's eyes, it is plain that he can never see an object which is exactly
whale's flesh that night.  Mingling their mumblings with his own mastications,
whale's jaw, if you narrowly search, you will at last see a lashless eye,
whale's majestic flukes.  But go to the old Galleries, and look now at a great
whale, but let that pass; since, for the life of me, I could not draw so
whale, is not so much to be regarded as the skin of the creature, as the
whale, seemed yoked together like colossal bullocks, whereof one reclines
whale, the chain is readily made to follow suit; and being slipped along the
whale, the other is slowly slackened away, and down goes the first strip
whale-line.  The line originally used in the fishery was of the best hemp,
whale-lines.  All are born with halters round their necks; but it is only
whale-lines; for, though not so durable as hemp, it is stronger, and far
whale-ship at sea.  If you have never seen that sight, then suspend your
whale-ship takes out a goodly number of letters for various ships, whose
whale-ships ever beheld, and returned to their ports to tell of it.  But
whale.  No wonder, taking the whole fleet of whalemen in a body, that out of
whale; only, in the latter instance, the head is cut off whole, but in the
whale?  When first severed, the head is dropped astern and held there by a
whaleman, to see these sights; and not only that, but if you wish to return
whalemen.  The ivory Pequod was turned into what seemed a shamble;
whaler anchored, inshore, in a calm, and lazily taking water on board; the
whales, I am strongly tempted here to enter upon those still more monstrous
whaling life where individual notabilities make up all totalities.  He was a
what is that handle made of? --what but the bones of the brother of the very ox
wheat.  On the second day, numbers of Right Whales were seen, who, secure
when caught in the swift, sudden turn of death, that mortals realize the
when instantly, a swift tremor was felt running like lightning along the keel,
when seamen fall overboard, they are sometimes found, months afterwards,
when the device was first introduced.  It was introduced by an old Italian
when tossed by pirates from the midnight deck; for hours he fell into the
when,
whence he derived that picture, who can tell?  Perhaps he got it as his
where the Right Whale is often chased.
where you doubtless overheard a holy parson addressing his hearers as his
whether he intended to hunt the White Whale, if opportunity should offer.  To
which Ahab answered -- Aye.  Straightway, then, Gabriel once more started to
which aboriginally belongs to it.  The first boat we read of, floated on an
which experienced whale surgeons very much pride themselves; and not without
which must remain unpainted to the last.  True, one portrait may hit the mark
which refuses to give up its dead; still in dreams sees the awful white whale
which you would fancy to be a young colt's eye; so out of all proportion is it
while Stubb, softly crawling behind, overheard all that was said.
while the other remains standing.  If moody Ahab was now all quiescence, at
who have a genuine relish for that particular part of the Sperm Whale
whole air and demeanor, he hisself won't go nowhere; but some bressed angel
wholly disappeared from view, as if diving under the keel.  Cut, cut!  was
will come and fetch him.  Fetch him?  How?  In a coach and four, as they
will you obtain a better chance to study practical cetology than here?  In the
will, long after the power which first moved it is withdrawn.  Ere
windward, a black cloud, rising up with earnest of squalls and rains, seems
with a wooden float at its outer end, and a weight in its middle, while the
with all the reckless energy of his tribe was venting his wild exclamations
with both hands folded before him, and resting on his two-legged cane, he
with experienced whalemen afloat, and learned naturalists ashore.
with in the forecastles of American whalers.  Some of them are done with much
with its black hull close to the vessel's, and seen through the darkness of
with might and main clinging to his seat, to prevent being tossed to the
with my shoulders leaning against the slackened royal shrouds, to and
with teeth in order to attack and tear it.  There seems some ground to imagine
with that mast, for oughts, do you see; well, that wouldn't begin to be
with the Pequod's sharks; though, to be sure, any man unaccustomed to such
with the flag of capture lazily hanging from the whale-pole inserted into his
with what little strength may remain, he essays to pitch it somehow into the
without being of it.  Be cool at the equator; keep thy blood fluid at the
without lowering a boat; yet now that a Sperm Whale had been brought
without still another interruption of a very different sort.  Pulling an oar
withstand it; in that dreamy mood losing all consciousness, at last my soul
wonderfully good and true.  The half-emptied line-tub floats on the whitened
woraciousness, fellow-critters, I don't blame ye so much for; dat is natur,
worse than the Persian host who murdered his own guests; sparing not the
wrinkles there to the
written by one Captain Colnett, a Post Captain in the English navy, entitled
wrong.  It may be that the primal source of all those pictorial delusions will
ye may go.
years afterwards,
yellow brit, gave unusual tokens of the vicinity of Right Whales, a species
yet to be slain; and though a thousand other whales were brought to his ship,
yet, even in the case of one of those young sucking whales hoisted to a ship's
you are eating?  And what do you pick your teeth with, after devouring that
you don't see his tail, is because he tucks it up out of sight; he carries
you expect to find it there when most wanted!  Again, if the dart be
you expect to go up into our main-top, do you, cook, when you are dead?
you had best provide for your summary retreat from Nantucket.  In a word,
you have it.  Hold it there now, and pay attention.  All 'dention, said
you is all sharks, and by natur wery woracious, yet I
you please, in the way of a mariner's fancy.  Long exile from Christendom and
you stood before, there, over against me, and pay particular attention.
you to turn the whole affair upside down, it would still be pretty much the
you would have thought from the sound on the Pequod's decks, that all hands
young and tender, free from the same heinousness of mistake.  Look at that
your cold-blooded, lungless fish, whose very bellies are refrigerators;
your ears.  You would find that you could only command some thirty degrees of
yourself, how it would fare with you, did you sideways survey objects through
yourself?  For as this appalling ocean surrounds the verdant land, so in the
yourselves; take plenty of time --but start her; start her like
zay to you, fellow-critters, dat dat woraciousness --'top dat dam slappin' ob
