





























































































































































    
    
    
     A Voyage round Cape Horn into the South Seas, for the purpose of extending
     A nice spot, cried Flask; just let me prick him there once.  Avast!
     A penny roll would choke him; his swallow is so very small.  But, to this,
     A word concerning an incident in the last
     Advancement of Learning you will find some curious whales.  But quitting all
     Adverse winds are holding mad Christmas in him, boys.  It's the first foul
     All dention, said Fleece, again stooping over upon his tongs in the
     Am I the same man that helped kill this whale?  Doesn't the devil live for
     Bashaw assails him, and chases him away!  High times, indeed, if
     Being horizontal in its position, the Leviathan's tail acts in a different
     Bishop Jebb's anticipative answer is ready.  It is not necessary, hints the
     Captain Mayhew, stand by now to receive it; and taking the fatal missive
     Captain, I have just bethought me of my letter-bag; there is a letter for
     Crossing the
     Didn't say dat t'all, said Fleece, again in the sulks.  You said up there,
     Ere quitting, for the nonce, the
     Fellow-critters: I'se ordered here to say dat you must stop dat dam noise
     Gallow the very wanderers of the dark And make them keep their caves.  To
     Go to bed berry soon, he mumbled, half-turning as he spoke.  Avast!  heave
     Hand in hand, ship and breeze
     Haul in the chains!  Let the carcase go
     Here, now, are
     I had the curiosity to place a mirror before me; and ere long saw reflected
     I have given no small attention to that
     I shall ere long
     I think that all this indirectly proceeds from the helpless perplexity of
     If the Sperm Whale be physiognomically a
     If to Starbuck the apparition of
     It should not have been omitted that
     It was a Saturday night, and such a
     It was a terrific, most pitiable, and maddening sight.  The whale was now
     Meantime, the hoisted sperm whale's head jogged about very violently, and
     Nimble as a cat, Tashtego
     No ribs of man or boat can withstand it.  Your only salvation lies in eluding
     Now comes the Baling of
     Now, cook, said Stubb, resuming his supper at the capstan; Stand just where
     O man!  in all seasons a temperature of thine own.  But how easy and how
     Other poets have warbled the praises of
     Out of the trunk, the branches grow; out
     PICTURES OF WHALING SCENES In connexion with the monstrous pictures of
     Reference was made to
     Silence!  How old are you, cook? 'Bout ninety, dey say, he gloomily
     Slowly wading through the meadows of brit, the
     Steering north-eastward from the Crozetts, we
     Stubb here alluded to a strange story told of the Jeroboam, and a certain
     Stubb's whale had been killed some
     Talk to 'em gentlemanly.  Once more the sermon proceeded.  Your
     That for six thousand years --and no one
     That lively cry upon this deadly calm might almost convert a better man.
     That mortal man should feed upon
     The long and narrow peninsula of
     The old monks of Dunfermline were very fond of them.  They had a great
     The predestinated day
     The previous chapter
     The same secludedness and isolation to which the schoolmaster whale betakes
     There are some
     There she slides, now!  Hurrah for the white-ash breeze!  Down with the
     They have such an eatable look that the most self-denying stranger can hardly
     To make them run easily and swiftly,
     To scan the lines of his face, or feel
     Well then, cook; you see this whale-steak of yours was so very bad, that I
     Whale gives token of sinking, they fasten buoys to him, with plenty of
     Whale-balls for breakfast --don't forget.  Wish, by gor!  whale eat him,
     Whale; Colnett's, Huggins's, Frederick Cuvier's, and Beale's.  In the
     What has he in his hand there?  cried Starbuck, pointing to something
     What was it, Sir?  said Flask.  The great live squid, which they say, few
     When in the Southern Fishery, a
     Who dat?  Den preach to him yourself, sullenly turning to go.  No, Cook;
     With a fair, fresh wind, the Pequod was now drawing nigh to these straits;
     With a grating rush, the three lines flew round the loggerheads with such a
     With reference to the whaling scene shortly to
     a broad, semicircular line is cut round the hole, the hook is inserted, and
     a steak, ere I sleep!  You, Daggoo!  overboard you go, and cut me one from
     all that would not one jot advance his grand, monomaniac object.  Very soon
     and all caught their breath, as half swinging --now over the sailors' heads,
     and as that long canal --like the grand Erie Canal --is furnished with a sort
     and fifty fins growing on each side of his upper chop, which arch over his
     and for several feet laid along, horizontally, just beneath the upper
     and making a long arc in his descent, fell into the sea at the distance of
     and not till you get near twenty feet from the forehead do you come to the
     and the ball, and the explosion; so the graceful repose of the line, as it
     and the ship seemed on the point of going over.  Hold on, hold on, won't
     and then you have two almost equal parts, which before were naturally
     and, I would add, possibly called The Whale, as some craft are nowadays
     and, as for the narwhale, one glimpse at it is enough to amaze one, that in
     antediluvian Hindoo.  It is Guido's picture of Perseus rescuing Andromeda
     as the strained line, scraping beneath the ship, suddenly rose to view under
     been impertinent.  As on your physiognomical voyage you sail round his vast
     body, is at last locked fast round the smallest part of the tail, at the
     breach --somewhere else to be described --this peaking of the whale's flukes is
     but it seems to me, that in the whale the sense of touch is concentrated in
     but the Vedas, or mystical books, whose perusal would seem to have been
     caused by the vast drifts of brit continually floating in those latitudes,
     circle, where abundance of room and some convenient retreats were afforded
     consideration before mentioned: i.  e.  that a man should eat a newly murdered
     dexterously he lands on the summit of the head.  There --still high elevated
     do, do! --What's that Yarman about now?  At this moment Derick was in the act
     fowls, whose beaks are like so many insulting poniards in the whale.  The
     full of sparks, were given, when the exceeding strain effected the rest.
     get him to swap away his silver watch, or his soul, or something of that
     grey-headed whale.  Let us now note what is least dissimilar in these heads
     hoisted Tun.  He has carried with him a light tackle called a whip,
     holding on, as it is called; this hooking up by the sharp barbs of his live
     intelligent public of schoolboys.  Then, again, in
     into the great Kentucky Mammoth Cave of his stomach.  But let us hold on here
     it is all the time being hoisted higher and higher aloft till its upper end
     its broad forward end forming the expanded vertical apparent forehead of the
     last elevated out of the water, and retained in that position by the
     making affrighted broken circles in the air, vainly striving to escape the
     never saw such a book; heard of it, though.  But now, tell me, Stubb, do you
     or be content to lose him.  But to haul the boat up to his flank was
     or how do you know that they are not those identical drops superficially
     or whether that exhaled breath is mixed with water taken in at the mouth,
     originally invented by the Nantucket Indians, called druggs.  Two thick
     other end is secured to the ship.  By adroit management the wooden float is
     poor Tash by the head.  He averred, that upon first thrusting in for him, a
     power of speed to rid himself of the iron leech that had fastened to him; as
     raised from the mast-heads of both vessels; and so eager for the chase was
     scarf, simultaneously cut by the spades of Starbuck and Stubb, the mates;
     seem almost as hopeful as for Lavater to have scrutinized the wrinkles on the
     so that we seemed to be sailing through boundless fields of ripe and golden
     strips off a frock, and the hole is stopped.  Third: I cannot demonstrate it,
     strong individual vitality, and the rare virtue of thick walls, and the rare
     terror, than though seated before your evening fire with a poker, and not a
     that he will keep thus bleeding and bleeding for a considerable period; even
     that of the fatal accidents in the Sperm-Whale Fishery, this kind is perhaps
     that they cast long gleams of light over the turbid sea, these
     the Pequod had gradually drifted into a sea, which, by its occasional
     the Right Whale are by far the most noteworthy.  They are the only whales
     the Right Whale has two external spout-holes, the Sperm Whale only one.
     the strongest point anywhere above a ship's deck.  The end of the hawser-like
     then a love of ease and virtue supplants the love for maidens; our Ottoman
     this is a thing which carries more of true terror than any other aspect of
     this story is in substance really true?  It is so passing wonderful!  Did you
     thou must either-- But that instant a headlong wave shot the boat far
     thousands on thousands of sharks, swarming round the dead leviathan,
     till it almost seemed that some spell had suddenly domesticated them.
     to hold this so-called dragon no other than the great Leviathan himself.  In
     to rise on the other side of the mass, so that now having girdled the made
     trace out great whales in the starry heavens, and boats in pursuit of them;
     unless, indeed, your fancy has been fixed by the technical term crown also
     very heedfully, like a treasure-hunter in some old house, sounding the
     whether the spout of the Sperm Whale is the mere vapor of the exhaled breath,
     will ye!  Stand clear of the tackle!  cried a voice like the bursting of a
     with broken back, would correctly represent the noble animal itself in all
     yet, even at the present day, we occasionally hear of English and American
     yet, upon
 "Also bear with all of us, sir sailor; for we all join in Don Sebastian's
 "So help me Heaven, and on my honor the story I have told ye, gentlemen, is
 (in the act of cutting-in) hove over to the monster as if to a quay; and a
"but I know a worthy priest near by, who will quickly procure one for me.  I
'em they are welcome to help themselves civilly, and in moderation, but they
'stead of him eat whale.  I'm bressed if he ain't more of shark dan Massa
(that is to say, the Right whale), even Scoresby, a long experienced man as
),
, Bernard Germain,
, and hoisted on deck.  I doubt not the
, entitled A Whaling Voyage to
, he
, there are plates of an alleged whale and a narwhale.  I do not wish
-- It's against my religion to get mad; but I'd like to eat that villanous
-- Stand up, and give it to him!  He now has to drop and secure his oar,
-- There!  there again!  there she breaches!  right ahead!  The White Whale,
-- Think, think of the blasphemer --dead, and down there! --beware of the
-- What a hump --Oh, do pile on the beef --lays like a log!  Oh!  my lads, do
-- namely, the two most important organs, the eye and the ear.
-- take it, and taste it.  Faintly smacking his withered lips over it for a
--Where away?  Three points on the starboard bow, sir, and bringing down her
--almost fatal operation whereby the Sperm Whale's great Heidelburgh Tun is
--cried daggoo again with a joyful shout; and soon after, Queequeg was seen
--don't oh, don't! -- see that Yarman --Oh!  won't ye pull for your duff, my
--glorified by a rainbow, as if Heaven itself had put its seal upon his
--particularly remark its front aspect, in all its compacted collectedness.  I
--scrape away!  The boat was now all but jammed between two vast black bulks,
--the delicious death of an Ohio honey-hunter, who seeking honey in the crotch
--the man's wife, I'll wager) -- Aye --Mr. Harry Macey, Ship Jeroboam; --why
--this green, barnacled thing, which the Greenlanders call the crown, and
--though as yet a mile in their rear, --than they rallied again, and forming in
--upper, middle, and lower.  The fibres in the upper and lower layers, are long
.. < chapter lix 4  SQUID >
.. < chapter lv 7  OF THE MONSTROUS PICTURES OF WHALES >
.. < chapter lvi 6  OF THE LESS ERRONEOUS PICTURES OF WHALES, AND THE TRUE >
.. < chapter lvii 23  OF WHALES IN PAINT; IN TEETH; IN WOOD; IN >
.. < chapter lviii 11  BRIT >
.. < chapter lx 26  THE LINE >
.. < chapter lxi 17  STUBB KILLS A WHALE >
.. < chapter lxii 19  THE DART >
.. < chapter lxiii 2  THE CROTCH >
.. < chapter lxiv 16  STUBB'S SUPPER >
.. < chapter lxix 2  THE FUNERAL >
.. < chapter lxv 12  THE WHALE AS A DISH >
.. < chapter lxvi 2  THE SHARK MASSACRE >
.. < chapter lxvii 23  CUTTING IN >
.. < chapter lxviii 29  THE BLANKET >
.. < chapter lxx 14  THE SPHYNX >
.. < chapter lxxi 2  THE JEROBOAM'S STORY >
.. < chapter lxxiii 23  STUBB AND FLASK KILL A RIGHT WHALE; AND THEN HAVE >
.. < chapter lxxiv 7  THE SPERM WHALE'S HEAD--CONTRASTED VIEW >
.. < chapter lxxix 14  THE PRAIRE >
.. < chapter lxxv 17  THE RIGHT WHALE'S HEAD--CONTRASTED VIEW >
.. < chapter lxxvi 24  THE BATTERING-RAM >
.. < chapter lxxvii 2  THE GREAT HEIDELBURGH TUN >
.. < chapter lxxviii 2  CISTERN AND BUCKETS >
.. < chapter lxxx 2  THE NUT >
.. < chapter lxxxi 21  THE PEQUOD MEETS THE VIRGIN >
.. < chapter lxxxii 24  THE HONOR AND GLORY OF WHALING >
.. < chapter lxxxiii 26  JONAH HISTORICALLY REGARDED >
.. < chapter lxxxiv 2  PITCHPOLING >
.. < chapter lxxxv 11  THE FOUNTAIN >
.. < chapter lxxxvi 16  THE TAIL >
.. < chapter lxxxvii 6  THE GRAND ARMADA >
.. < chapter lxxxviii 28  SCHOOLS AND SCHOOLMASTERS >
.. <p 241n. >
.. <p 260 >
.. <p 261 >
.. <p 261 >
.. <p 262 >
.. <p 263 >
.. <p 264 >
.. <p 265 >
.. <p 266 >
.. <p 266 >
.. <p 267 >
.. <p 268 >
.. <p 269 >
.. <p 269 >
.. <p 270 >
.. <p 271 >
.. <p 272 >
.. <p 272 >
.. <p 272n. >
.. <p 273 >
.. <p 274 >
.. <p 275 >
.. <p 275 >
.. <p 276 >
.. <p 277 >
.. <p 277 >
.. <p 278 >
.. <p 279 >
.. <p 280 >
.. <p 281 >
.. <p 281 >
.. <p 282 >
.. <p 283 >
.. <p 283n. >
.. <p 284 >
.. <p 284n. >
.. <p 285 >
.. <p 286 >
.. <p 286 >
.. <p 287 >
.. <p 288 >
.. <p 289 >
.. <p 289 >
.. <p 290 >
.. <p 290n. >
.. <p 291 >
.. <p 292 >
.. <p 293 >
.. <p 294 >
.. <p 295 >
.. <p 296 >
.. <p 297 >
.. <p 297 >
.. <p 298 >
.. <p 299 >
.. <p 300 >
.. <p 301 >
.. <p 301 >
.. <p 301n. >
.. <p 302 >
.. <p 303 >
.. <p 303 >
.. <p 304 >
.. <p 305 >
.. <p 306 >
.. <p 307 >
.. <p 308 >
.. <p 308 >
.. <p 309 >
.. <p 310 >
.. <p 311 >
.. <p 312 >
.. <p 313 >
.. <p 314 >
.. <p 315 >
.. <p 316 >
.. <p 317 >
.. <p 317 >
.. <p 322 >
.. <p 323 >
.. <p 324 >
.. <p 325 >
.. <p 326 >
.. <p 327 >
.. <p 327 >
.. <p 328 >
.. <p 329 >
.. <p 330 >
.. <p 331 >
.. <p 331 >
.. <p 332 >
.. <p 333 >
.. <p 333n. >
.. <p 334 >
.. <p 334 >
.. <p 335 >
.. <p 336 >
.. <p 337 >
.. <p 337n. >
.. <p 338 >
.. <p 339 >
.. <p 340 >
.. <p 341 >
.. <p 342 >
.. <p 343 >
.. <p 343 >
.. <p 344 >
.. <p 345 >
.. <p 346 >
.. <p 347 >
.. <p 348 >
.. <p 348 >
.. <p 349 >
.. <p 350 >
.. <p 351 >
.. <p 352 >
.. <p 353 >
.. <p 354 >
.. <p 355 >
.. <p 356 >
.. <p 357 >
.. <p 358 >
.. <p 359 >
.. <p 359 >
.. <p 360 >
.. <p 361 >
.. <p 362 >
.. <p 362 >
.. <p 363 >
.. <p 364 >
.. <p 365 >
.. <p 366 >
.. <p 367 >
.. <p 367 >
.. <p 368 >
.. <p 369 >
.. <p 370 >
.. <p 371 >
.. <p 372 >
.. <p 372 >
.. <p 373 >
.. <p 374 >
.. <p 375 >
.. <p 376 >
.. <p 376n. >
.. <p 377 >
.. <p 377 >
.. <p 378 >
.. <p 379 >
.. <p 380 >
.. <p 381 >
.. <p 382 >
.. <p 382n. >
.. <p 383 >
.. <p 384 >
.. <p 385 >
.. <p 386 >
.. <p 387 >
.. <p 387n. >
.. <p 388 >
.. <p 389 >
.. <p 389 >
.. <p 390 >
.. <p 391 >
.. <p 392 >
A TALK OVER HIM It must be borne in mind that all this time we have a Sperm
A little item may as well be related here.  The strongest and most reliable
According to this account and what was subsequently learned, it seemed that
Again the phantom went down, but on re-appearing once more, with a
Ahab purposing to pass through them into the Javan sea, and thence, cruising
Ahab said nothing; turning his boat, he sailed back to the vessel; the rest
Ahab stood on the bowsprit, and with one hand pushed far behind in readiness
Ahab to-and-fro paced the deck; in his forward turn beholding the monsters he
Ahab; thou art soon going that way.  Curses throttle thee!  yelled Ahab.
American fishery almost entirely superseded hemp as a material for
An interval passed and the boats were in plain sight, in the act of being
And as that famous great tierce is mystically carved in front, so the whale's
And now suspended in stages over the side, Starbuck and Stubb, the mates,
Arnold, at the battle of Saratoga, carrying dismay wherever he went.  But
As a general thing, therefore, you must first get fast to a whale, before any
As if too long lurking behind the headlands, till the Pequod should fairly
As in decapitating the whale, the operator's instrument is brought close to
At the instant of the dart an ulcerous jet shot from this cruel wound, and
Australia, and dividing the long unbroken Indian ocean from the thickly
Auto-da-Fes in Lima now," said one of the company to another: "I fear our
Baltic, and the Propontis.  Unlike the Danes, these Orientals do not demand the
Besides, it has been divined by other continental commentators, that when
Beware of the horrible plague!  Gabriel, Gabriel!  cried Captain Mayhew;
Bishop, that we consider Jonah as tombed in the whale's belly, but as
Both are massive enough in all conscience; but there is a certain mathematical
Bremen.  At one time the greatest whaling people in the world, the Dutch and
Browne are pretty correct in contour; but they are wretchedly engraved.  That
But Fleece had hardly got three paces off, when he was recalled.  Cook, give
But I sometimes think he'll charm the ship to no good at last.  I don't half
But as if this vast local power in the tendinous tail were not enough, the
But don't you know the higher you climb, the colder it gets?  Main-top, eh?
But far beneath this wondrous world upon the surface, another and still
But his wild screams were answered by others quite as wild.  Kee-hee!
But in the great Sperm Whale, this high and mighty god-like dignity inherent
But it was only the sound they made as they parted the brit which at all
But mark the other head's expression.  See that amazing lower lip, pressed by
But nothing like this, in the present case, had been done.  The carcases of
But owing to the mystery of the spout --whether it be water or whether it be
But though boats have been taken down and lost in this way, yet it is this
But upon flinging the third, in the act of tossing overboard the clumsy
But with the whale, these two sashes are separately inserted, making two
But, perhaps you expect to get into heaven by crawling through the lubber's
By experiment its one and fifty yarns will each suspend a weight of one
By thunder, men, we must do something or go for it.  No use prying there;
China, four or five laborers on the foot-path will draw a bulky freighted
Christian painter's portrait of this fish; for he succeeds no better than the
Christianity; go on.  No use goin' on; de dam willains will keep a
Circassian to behold.  The whale line is only two thirds of an inch in
Consider!  Most of the scientific drawings have been taken from the
Count de Lacepede,
Crockett and Kit Carson --that brawny doer of rejoicing good deeds, was
Death himself might well have been the post-boy.  Can'st not read it?  cried
Derick, that without pausing to put his oil-can and lamp-feeder aboard, he
Dericks, my friend.
Dome of the Pantheon.  Still, in that famous work of his, Lavater not only
Don Sebastian; but may I also beg that you will be particular in procuring
Don't be tearin' de blubber out your neighbour's mout, I say.  Is not one
Don." "Then I entreat you, tell me if to the best of your own convictions,
Egypt of every man's and every being's face.  Physiognomy, like every other
England rocks on the sea-coast, which Agassiz imagines to bear the marks of
English words --the etymological Howards and Percys --are now democratised, nay,
Equator awhile, they start for the Oriental waters in anticipation of the
Every one knows that by the peculiar cunning of their gills, the finny tribes
Far back on the side of the head, and low down, near the angle of either
Fedallah wants to kidnap Captain Ahab?  Do I suppose it?  You'll know it
Fedallah's age.  Nor all the coopers in creation couldn't show hoops enough to
Flask with lance for lance; and thus round and round the Pequod the battle
Flask's saying proved true.  As before, the Pequod steeply leaned over towards
Fleece, as they called him, came shuffling and limping along, assisting his
France, and commanded large prices there.  Also, that in Henry VIIIth's
Frederick Cuvier's Sperm Whale is not a Sperm Whale, but a squash.  Of course,
Furthermore, as his windpipe solely opens into the tube of his spouting canal,
Furthermore, you are now to consider that only in the extreme, lower, backward
Gabriel
Gabriel started to his feet.  Think, think of the fevers, yellow and bilious!
Gabriel was seen eyeing it with rather more apprehensiveness than his
Gate leading from the Thames by water into the Tower.  Then, there are the
German's aside with such force, that both Derick and his baffled harpooneer
Germans are now among the least; but here and there at very wide intervals of
Go and gaze upon all the paintings in Europe, and where will you find such a
God keep thee!  Push not off from that isle, thou canst never return!
Good Hope at so early a day would wrest the honor of the discovery of that
Greedily sucking in this intelligence, Gabriel solemnly warned the captain
Harris's collection of voyages there are some plates of whales extracted from
He was therefore forced to relinquish his plan.  Nor would they permit Gabriel
Hercules and the whale, and Arion and the dolphin;
Hercules, Jonah, and Vishnoo!  there's a member-roll for you!  What club but
Hold the steak in one hand, and show a live coal to it with the other; that
Holy Evangelists in the Golden Inn, gentlemen?" "Nay," said Don Sebastian;
Hurrah!  this is the way to sail now.  Every keel a sun-beam!  Hurrah! --Here
Hydrus and the Flying Fish.  With a frigate's anchors for my bridle-bitts and
I know not that it has been defined before.  A quoin is a solid which differs
I remember some such story as you were telling, said Flask, when at last the
I'm coming to, cook.  You must go home and be born over again; you don't
In the case of a small Sperm Whale the brains are accounted a fine dish.  The
In the distance, a great white mass lazily rose, and rising higher and
Indiamen chance to crowd and crush towards each other in the docks, what do
Indian unconsciously revealing by those struggles the perilous depth to which
Indian wigwam.  Good Lord!  is this the road that Jonah went?  The roof is
Indian, was so heedless and reckless as to let go for a moment his one-handed
It is an old Saxon word.  It occurs once in Shakespeare: -- The wrathful skies
It is worse; for you cannot sit motionless in the heart of these perils,
It might have been darted by some Nor' West Indian long before America was
It will be seen in some other place of what a very light substance the entire
Japan, in time for the great whaling season there.  By these means, the
Java Head; they not a little correspond to the central gateway opening into
Jeroboam had a malignant epidemic on board, and that Mayhew, her captain,
Jonah merely meant a life-preserver --an inflated bag of wind --which the
Jonah was thrown overboard from the Joppa ship, he straightway effected his
Jungfrau was again lowering her boats; though the only spout in sight was
Kee-hee!  yelled Daggoo, straining forwards and backwards on his seat,
King of the Cannibals; and ready at any moment to rebel against him.  Now,
Leviathan partly merged in grass, which of a windy day breaks against them in
Leviathan was slain at the very first dart.  And let no man doubt this Arkite
Leviathan's tail, his trunk is but the stalk of a lily.  The most direful
Leviathan, in the creature's living intact state, is an entire delusion.  As
Look your last, now, on these venerable hooded heads, while they yet lie
Lord; --Vishnoo, who, by the first of his ten earthly incarnations, has for
Malacca, extending south-eastward from the territories of Birmah, forms the
Mayhew began a dark story concerning Moby Dick; not, however, without
Moreover, while in most other animals that I can now think of, the eyes are so
Mosque built in honor of Jonah, in which mosque was a miraculous lamp that
Mr. Stubb, said Daggoo.  Yes; both pipes smoked out!  and withdrawing his
My original opinion remains unchanged; but it is only an opinion.  The
Nantucket irons entered the whale.  Blinding vapors of foam and white-fire!
Nantucket, where, with that cunning peculiar to craziness, he assumed a
Nevertheless, many whalemen have a method of absorbing it into some other
Nevertheless, the boats pursued, and Stubb's was foremost.  By great exertion,
New-England rocks with the noble brawn of the old English emigrants in the
Nor do heroes, saints, demigods, and prophets alone comprise the whole roll of
Northern Lights, and the successive armed kings and Emperors dash by, like a
Now, how had this noble rescue been accomplished?  Why, diving after the
Now, if after he fetches a few
Now, the beheading of the Sperm Whale is a scientific anatomical feat, upon
Oh!  happy that the world is such an excellent listener!  Now, the spouting
One of these little infants, that from certain queer tokens seemed hardly a
Over this lip, as over a slippery threshold, we now slide into the mouth.
Pacific, this plan will not answer at all; because such incalculable hosts
Pacific.  For some reason, the Jungfrau seemed quite eager to pay her
Pacifics seemed passed as they shot on their way, till at length the whale
Partly to show the indispensableness of this act, it may here be stated,
Pequod still held on her way north-eastward towards the island of Java; a
Pequod's deck, then, as she would rise on a high hill of the sea, this host
Pequod.  I fear not thy epidemic, man, said Ahab from the bulwarks
Perseus, a son of Jupiter, was the first whaleman; and to the eternal honor of
Perseus, the prince of whalemen, intrepidly advancing, harpooned the monster,
Peter's!  of creatures, how few vast as the whale!
Phidias's marble Jove, and what a sorry remainder!  Nevertheless, Leviathan
Physiognomically regarded, the Sperm Whale is an anomalous creature.  He has
Physiognomist or Phrenologist has as yet undertaken.  Such an enterprise would
Pole.  Like the great dome of St.  Peter's, and like the great whale, retain,
Portuguese Catholic priest, this very idea of Jonah's going to Nineveh via
Possibly, too, Jonah might have ensconced himself in a hollow tooth; but, on
Prodromus whales of the old Scotch Sibbald, and Jonah's whale, as depicted
Queequeg patted their foreheads; Starbuck scratched their backs with his
Quoin is not a Euclidean term.  It belongs to the pure nautical mathematics.
Read if it you can.
Richard III.  whales, with dromedary humps, and very savage; breakfasting on
Rock of Gibraltar, or for Gall to have mounted a ladder and manipulated the
Russian campaign turned their dead horses into tents, and crawled into them.
SHEET-IRON; IN STONE; IN MOUNTAINS; IN STARS On Tower-hill, as you go down
Sabbath as followed!  Ex officio professors of Sabbath breaking are all
Sag-Harbor (he went by that name) urged for his want of faith in this matter
Sag-Harbor, therefore, seems worsted all round.  But he had still another
Scoresby; but they are drawn on too small a scale to convey a desirable
Secretary of the Society for the Suppression of Cruelty to Ganders formally
Securing this block, so that it hangs down from the yard-arm, he swings one
Shaker God incarnated; the Shakers receiving the Bible.  But when, some year
Shakespeare's or Melancthon's rise so high, and descend so low, that the eyes
Shark hisself, muttered the old man, limping away; with which sage
Should any unwarrantably pert young Leviathan coming that way, presume to
So soon as this figure had been first descried, Stubb had exclaimed -- That's
Soon, while the crews were awaiting the arrival of the ship, the body showed
Sperm Whale into such immense caravans, may be imputed the circumstance that
Sperm Whale is a very curious thing; nor has any fisherman yet adequately
Sperm Whale's head, I would have you, as a sensible physiologist, simply
Sperm Whale's tail to begin at that point of the trunk where it tapers to
Sperm Whale, will yield the bulk of one hundred barrels of oil; and, when it
Sperm Whale-teeth, or ladies' busks wrought out of the Right Whale-bone, and
Sphinx, to the phrenologist his brain seems that geometrical circle which it
Spitzbergen in the ship Jonas in the Whale, Peter Peterson of Friesland,
Squid.  The manner in which the Bishop describes it, as alternately rising
Starbuck's orders, lines were secured to it at different points, so that ere
Starbuck, who had the ordering of affairs, hung on to it to the last; hung
Start her, Tash, my boy --start her, all; but keep cool, keep cool--
Steelkilt since the death of Radney."
Still rolling in his blood, at last he partially disclosed a strangely
Stubb's and Flask's, were detached in pursuit.  Pulling further and further
Stubb, approvingly, coax 'em to it; try that, and Fleece continued.  Do
Stubb, no, no, it's a coffee-pot, Mr. Starbuck; he's coming off to make
Stubb, not without some disgust at the thought of having to do with so
Surely, he will stop for water.  Nay.  For a long time, now, the circus-running
Tahitians, who had been somewhat used to the sea.  Chartering a small native
Tashtego at last succeeded in planting one iron; but the stricken whale,
Tashtego was sinking utterly down to the bottom of the sea!  But hardly had
That part of the sea known among whalemen as the Brazil Banks does not bear
The ancient whale-cry upon first sighting a whale from the mast-head, still
The first and second were successfully darted, and we saw the whales
The result of this lowering was somewhat illustrative of that sagacious saying
The sperm whale, as with all other species of the Leviathan, but unlike
The three boats, in the first fury of the whale's headlong rush, bumped the
The whale, like all things that are mighty, wears a false brow to the common
The whaling-spade used for cutting-in is made of the very best steel; is about
There are those sharks now over the side, don't you see they prefer it tough
There's your law of precedents; there's your utility of traditions; there's
There, luck befriended him; two ships were about to sail for France, and
They are comparatively delicate, indeed; I dare say, not to exceed half a
Third, in sweeping; Fourth, in lobtailing; Fifth, in peaking flukes.  First:
This reminds us that the Right Whale really has a sort of whisker, or rather
Thou shalt see my back parts, my tail, he seems to say, but my face shall not
Though all comparison in the way of general bulk between the whale and the
Though such a movement on the part of the whale struck under such
Thus, some minds for ever keep trimming boat.  Oh, ye foolish!  throw all
Tigris, very much more than three days' journey across from the nearest point
To gally, or gallow, is to frighten excessively --to confound with fright.
Tun of the Sperm Whale embraces the entire length of the entire top of the
Turkish Muezzin calling the good people to prayers from the top of a tower.  A
Turks; for these Grand Turks are too lavish of their strength, and hence
Under all these circumstances, would it be unreasonable to survey and map
Upon my word were I at Mackinaw, I should take this to be the inside of an
Venetian blind in their mouths, was in that manner separated from the water
Vishnu in the form of leviathan, learnedly known as the Matse Avatar.  But
Whale is depicted in full majesty of might, just risen beneath the boat from
Whale is far less liable to this accident than any other species.  Where one
Whale were paved with horses' hoofs.  I do not think that any sensation lurks
Whale's body, rushed to the fresh blood that was spilled, thirstily drinking
Whale's head hoisted on her starboard side, and at the same time a Right
Whale's on the larboard; did you never hear, Stubb, that that ship can never
Whale's prodigious head hanging to the Pequod's side.  But we must let it
Whale, a Platonian, who might have taken up Spinoza in his latter years.
Whale, the front of his head presents an almost wholly vertical plane to the
What tenderness there is in that preliminary touch!  Had this tail any
What would become of a Greenland whale, say, in those shuddering, icy seas of
When serenely advancing on one of these journeys, if any strange suspicious
Whether he had lost that fin in battle, or had been born without it, it were
Whether to admit Hercules among us or not, concerning this I long remained
Who Garnery the painter is, or was, I know not.  But my life for it he was
With a terrific snap, every fastening went adrift; the ship righted, the
With the same marvellous patience, and with the same single shark's tooth,
Witness, too, all human beings, how when herded together in the sheepfold of
Yarman --Pull--won't ye?  Are ye going to let that rascal beat ye?  Do ye love
Yarman!  Sail over him!  But so decided an original start had Derick had,
You meet them on the Line in time for the full flower of the Equatorial
You would almost think a great gun had been discharged; and if you noticed
Zogranda, one of their most famous doctors, recommends strips of blubber for
a Dutch book of voyages, A. D.
a Nantucketer with disdain, since even in our woollen frocks and tarred
a Picture of a Physeter or Spermaceti whale, drawn by scale from one killed
a Saturday night and see the crowds of live bipeds staring up at the long rows
a broad white shadow rose from the sea; by its quick, fanning motion,
a cracked rib or a dashed plank or two, a sort of stitch in the side, is
a dairy-maid's pail of new milk.  Carefully lowered from its height, the
a dusky, dark fellow, a sort of Indian; but Manilla is as a golden-haired
a few inches of the sleepers' hearts.  Peering over the side you could just
a god.  Such things may seem incredible; but, however wondrous, they are
a great naturalist, published a scientific systemized whale book, wherein are
a hempen blue smoke now jetted up and mingled with the steady fumes from his
a large herd of whales in the east, all heading towards the sun, and for a
a little off from the ship.  Ha!  ha!  cried Daggoo, all at once, from his
a moment, stood thoughtfully eyeing the vast corpse he had made.
a moment, till they downwards shoot out of view.  Excepting the sublime
a moustache, consisting of a few scattered white hairs on the upper part of
a mule carrying a pair of overburdening panniers.  Meantime, Fedallah was
a nest of anacondas, as if blindly to clutch at any hapless object within
a peculiar motion of both hands -- Aye, will I!  Flask, I take that Fedallah to
a plate representing the old Indian characters chiselled on the famous
a season when he might most reasonably be presumed to be haunting it.  But how
a stiff full length of the Greenland whale, and three or four delicate
a sulk and pout that will yield you some 500 gallons of oil and more.  A great
a surf of green surges.  Then, again, in mountainous countries where the
a theatre's pit, they will, at the slightest alarm of fire, rush
a very long pole.  Inserting this pole into the bucket, Tashtego downward
a whaling vessel --that these men actually lived for several months on the
a young buck with an intelligent looking calf's head before him, is somehow
a'lee; and then send every one below to his hammock till daylight, with the
abominable, devilish rebellion against the reverend clergy.  For by a
abounding a smoke in the chimney, you would think there must be a brave
about a foot across.  Probably the mother during an important interval was
about fifty yards.  Not a chip of the boat was harmed, nor a hair of any
about it.  Therefore, the common usage is to take in all sail; lash the helm
about of the same opinion; so give the benediction, Fleece, and I'll away to
about the girth of a man, it comprises upon its upper surface alone, an area
about twelve feet high, and runs to a pretty sharp angle, as if there were a
above the rest of the company, to whom he vivaciously cries --he seems some
above-ground, in the air; how vast, then, the burden of a whale, bearing on
abreast with great speed straight before the wind, rubbing their flanks as
absolute body the whale is moored alongside the whale-ship so that he can be
absolutely undeveloped skulls.  But the curious external resemblance, I take
accident against the vessel's side, so as firmly to embrace the jaw.  Does
accidentally takes in water.  But the Sperm Whale's food is far beneath the
accidents of the fishery, this whale had become entangled in the harpoon-line
accommodate a couple of whist tables, and comfortably seat all the players.
accompanied by all the solaces and endearments of the harem.  The contrast
accompanies the body.  But strangest of all is the circumstance, that in more
accomplished it was noon, and the seamen went below to their dinner.  Silence
accomplished swordsman, warning all hands to stand off, once more makes a
according to the accompanying scale, to a full grown sperm whale, would make
account for those repeated whaling disasters --some few of which are casually
accounted for it.  Usually the dead Sperm Whale floats with great buoyancy,
accounts.  It is a quiet noon-scene among the isles of the Pacific; a French
accuracy.  At some old gable-roofed country houses you will see brass whales
accursed shark alone can in any generic respect be said to bear comparative
accustomed cry, as the great fish slowly and regularly spouted the sparkling
act of feeding, the spermaceti whale obtains his whole food in unknown zones
act of thinking deep thoughts.  While composing a little treatise on Eternity,
action of sweeping, when in maidenly gentleness the whale with a certain soft
actually harpooned his fish, unless, indeed, from the inside.  Nevertheless,
adapted to our present purpose, nevertheless deserves mention on other
adhering to the timid quarantine of the land, he peremptorily refused to come
adjacent, interdicted parts, and exactly divide the spine at a critical
admirable sauce to be eaten with barbacued porpoises, which, you remember,
adornment of his wondrous tun.  Moreover, as that of Heidelburgh was always
advance they sought to gain.  And they stuck to it till they did gain it;
advert to those curious imaginary portraits of him which even down to the
affect the countenance of the whale.  For as in landscape gardening, a spire,
afraid, my butter-boxes, cried Stubb, casting a passing glance upon them as
after dart into the flying fish; at the word of command, the boat
after her four young keels, and thus they all disappeared far to leeward,
after six cups of hot tea in my thin shingled attic, of an August noon; this
after that White Whale, and the devil there is trying to come round him, and
after the lapse of many hours or several days, the sunken whale again rises,
afterwards capsize?  Why not?  I don't know, but I heard that gamboge
afterwards killed at your leisure.  Hence it is, that at times like these the
again resumed his cruisings.  Where Steelkilt now is, gentlemen, none know;
again, and in due time arrived at Tahiti, his own place of destination.
again, he will be sure to have his seventy breaths over again, to a minute.
again.  Subject to this, and other the like interruptions now and then, a
against attacking the white whale, in case the monster should be seen; in his
against his wrist in rowing; and also passing between the men, as they
against the rocks, and leaves them there side by side with the split wrecks
ago, an English traveller in old Harris's Voyages, speaks of a Turkish
agonizing as was the wound of this whale, and an appalling spectacle enough,
ahab quickly revolved in his pivot-hole, crying, aloft there, and rig whips
ahab.  give it me, man.  aye, aye it's but a dim scrawl; --what's this?  As
ahead, and its seethings drowned all speech.  Hast thou seen the White Whale?
ahead, no more than he can one exactly astern.  in a word, the position of
air of the day.  And now abating in his flurry, the whale once more rolled
air; then smiting the surface, the thunderous concussion resounds for miles.
alights; less celestial, I celebrate a tail.  Reckoning the largest sized
all alone among the meridians and parallels saying his prayers, and warning
all angel is not'ing more dan de shark well goberned.  Now, look here,
all answers to his nose is that identical spout-hole; and being so clogged
all beings.  For according to King Juba, the military elephants of antiquity
all engaging one unusually strong, active, and knowing whale; when owing to
all fins.  Stubb and Tashtego here changed places -- stem for stern --a
all hands swearing occasionally, by way of assuaging the general friction.
all herding creatures.  Though banding together in tens of thousands, the
all his other unmolested risings.  Say he stays eleven minutes, and jets
all over the world; every baby an exotic.  In good time, nevertheless, as the
all raging commotion; but behind, in admirable artistic contrast, is the
all swiftly pulling towards their prey.  Soon it went down, and while, with
all the known varieties of the whale.  As the external difference between them
all the time, Starbuck stood up in the bows, lance in hand, pricking out of
all the well known black bone attached to what is called the crown-piece.
all their dexterous might, they caught repeated smoking turns with the rope
all their might so as to get ahead of the ship.  For a few minutes the
all these conceits had passed through his brain, Ahab's brow was left gaunt
all.
alluded to on a previous page deserves independent mention.  It is a notched
alluring jet would be seen.  But one transparent blue morning, when a
allusion to the Indian rocks reminds me of another thing.  Besides all the
almost as frequent as any.  Sometimes, nothing is injured but the man who is
almost before Tashtego could have reached its interior bottom.  Meantime,
almost entirely of females, and those mustering none but young vigorous
almost seem as if numerous nations of them had sworn solemn league and
almost stand in it, and yet be undecided as to what it is precisely.  The
along its length to see if it be exactly straight, Stubb whistlingly gathers
along the deck, and thrust rattling out of the port-holes.  But by those
along with you, cried Flask, it's a lamp-feeder and an oil-can.  He's out
alongside and beheaded, to the surprise of all, the announcement was made
alongside the barnacled flank of a large running Right Whale, that rolls his
alpine land lying along the snow line.  Few are the foreheads which like
also seems to me that such scratches in the whale are probably made by hostile
alternately sit at the opposite gunwales, to the leaded chocks or grooves in
alternately sterning out of the way of the whale's horrible wallow, and then
alternating with the stone in those wonderful relics of the antique, and
altogether of an irregular, random aspect.  I should say that those New
always of the largest leviathanic proportions, the ladies, even at full
always wanting oakum to stuff into the toes of his boots.  He sleeps in his
among gallied whales that this drugg is used.  For then, more whales are close
amount of oil.  Ere this, you must have plainly seen the truth of what I
an Ethiopian hue, glistening in the sun's rays like a mirror.  But lazily
an announcement immediately followed by Stubb's producing his match and
an arm thrust forth from the grass over a grave.  both!  both! --it is both!
an atmosphere of sacredness.  Moreover, they were afraid of him.  As such a
an enemy's sharp two-edged sword by the blade, and that enemy all the time
an incorruptible sea and air rolling and flowing between; yet conscientiously
an ox whip when we get home; -- what else?  Now, do you mean what you say,
analogical probability.  At any rate, if we yield to it, we must grant a far
analogy to him.  But though, to landsmen in general, the native inhabitants
anchors rot; where in her murderous hold this frigate earth is ballasted with
ancient extant portrait anyways purporting to be the whale's, is to be found
ancient one.  Like venerable moss-bearded Daniel Boone, he will have no one
and a lump of which sinks in it like lead almost.  But the tendency to rapid
and aft, to the imminent jeopardy of themselves and every one else.  It is
and after several hours' pulling were almost disposed to renounce the chase,
and as human infants while suckling will calmly and fixedly gaze away from the
and as the blubber in one strip uniformly peels off along the line called the
and be ready to abide by this; that though the Sperm Whale stove a passage
and buckets to wet the sails; --Malays, sir, and after us!
and can't be helped; but to gobern dat wicked natur, dat is de pint.  You is
and delivered and married the maid.  It was an admirable artistic exploit,
and discharged through the spiracle.  It is certain that the mouth indirectly
and every one knows that some young bucks among the epicures, by continually
and from the same point of view.  Indeed, place this reversed skull (scaled
and full of barbaric spirit and suggestiveness, as the prints of that fine
and furnishing a supply of
and gazing upon its thousand pipes?  For a carpet to the organ we have a rug
and ghosts of these creatures.  A sort of generic or Pantheistic vitality
and have been saying all along, stubb?  Mean or not mean, here we are at
and he certainly deserved it if any murderer does.  Go to the meat-market of
and hooded head; and hanging there in the midst of so intense a calm, it
and horizontal; those of the middle one, very short, and running crosswise
and if he had been put on his trial by oxen, he certainly would have been;
and in those days, and even down to a comparatively late period, dolphins
and is all ready for lowering.  The heavers forward now resume their song,
and is then
and joined the chase against the starry Cetus far beyond the utmost stretch of
and just as fast as it is thus peeled off, and indeed by that very act itself,
and kentledge.  She carries years' water in her.  Clear old prime Nantucket
and large experience.  In short, he is what the fishermen technically call a
and like King Porus' elephants in the Indian battle with Alexander, they
and lost.  For, when the line is darting out, to be seated then in the boat,
and never will.  But if I know not even the tail of this whale, how
and no prominence of any kind to denote their place; therefore, there must
and now over the water --Daggoo, through a thick mist of spray, was dimly
and other embellishments of some ancient books you will at times meet with
and prophesies of the storm, is perhaps more awful than the storm itself;
and put him in double-darbies, as he deserves, but lets him go about
and rare?  What a shindy they are kicking up!  Cook, go and talk to 'em; tell
and rather than be thus foiled of his game, Derick chose to hazard what to
and ribbed, like the black sand beach after some stormy tide has been gnawing
and round
and silks, and jewels, and gold, and ivory, with which the thousand islands of
and sinking, with some other particulars he narrates, in all this the two
and so on, there always goes up a certain semi-visible steam, while in the
and soft as satin; that is, previous to being dried, when it not only
and some ten or twenty fathoms (called box-line) being coiled upon the box in
and soon after news came from aloft that one or both the boats must be fast.
and soundings there, but because of this remarkable meadow-like appearance,
and struggling hosts, the marksmen could not always hit their mark; and this
and swimming on, in one solid, but still crescentic centre.  Crowding all sail
and taken from paintings by one Garnery.  Respectively, they represent
and tasselled, the sharks, also, with their jewel-hilted mouths, are
and that is adding insult to injury, is it?  Look at your knife-handle,
and the Dragon; which dragon I maintain to have been a whale; for in many
and the huge lower block of the tackles was swung over the whale; to this
and the whale's gastric juices.  But this objection likewise falls to the
and the whale; and vice versa; certainly they are very similar.  If I claim
and those that by their enormous girth seemed shortly to become mothers.  The
and though
and turning over on their backs as they scooped out huge globular pieces of
and we'd drink round it!  Yea, verily, hearts alive, we'd brew choice punch
and were stationary for a while, their vast black forms looked more like
and which, when additional game is at hand, are inserted upright into the
and while the one tackle is peeling and hoisting a second strip from the
and with delighted nostrils the fresh cinnamon was snuffed in the air, yet
and yells the keels cut the sea.  Meanwhile, Stubb retaining his place in the
and yet their doubting those traditions did not make those traditions one
and, like the six burghers of Calais before King Edward, the six men
animal balloon.  A line-of-battle ship could hardly keep him under then.  In
animals there are certain valves or flood-gates in many of their veins,
another passage up the Persian Gulf and Red Sea, such a supposition would
answer?  When dis old brack man dies, said the negro slowly, changing his
antique vases.  Though universally denominated a dolphin, I nevertheless call
any amazement at the strangely gallied whales before us, for there is no folly
any creature breathing is only a function indispensable to vitality, inasmuch
any leviathan's articulated bones.  In fact, as the great Hunter says, the
any profound being that had anything to say to this
any rate, it is pleasant to read about whales through their own spectacles,
any stagnant calm; when the long burnished sun-glade on the waters seemed a
any unknown instant the harpoon may be darted, and all these horrible
any way; yet the peculiar horror with which he seemed to inspire the rest of
any whale to swim in.  Besides, this idea of Jonah's weathering the Cape of
anywhere near.  And though all hands commonly disdained the capture of those
appalling to the wounded whale must have been such huge phantoms flitting over
apparently precedes
appearance of a baby's ears newly arrived from foreign parts.  Line!  line!
application.  As with the Hawaiian savage, so with the white sailor-savage.
archangel nature seemed to warrant.  When this interlude was over, Captain
archangel's denunciations and forewarnings, Macey succeeded in persuading
architects, these Vedas were lying at the bottom of the waters; so Vishnoo
ardor of youth declines; as years and dumps increase; as reflection lends
are a species of whale.  Porpoises, indeed, are to this day considered fine
are but one half-inch in thickness; for the bottom of the whale-boat is like
are enabled to recognise each other upon the ocean, even at considerable
are exposed; the lower end terminating in an eye-splice or loop coming up
are hostile; that oil is a sliding thing, and that the object in view is to
are instances where,
are these sea battle-pieces of Garnery.  The natural aptitude of the French for
are told, will he finally go down to stay out his full term below.  Remark,
are you, cook?  What dat do wid de 'teak, said the old black, testily.
arguments against such a presumption; because you cannot raise any other
arm, and his blind eyes, he must die the death and be murdered, in order to
arm, impotently rebounds from it.  It is as though the forehead of the Sperm
armed with their long spades, began cutting a hole in the body for the
arrangement is indispensable for common safety's sake; for were the lower end
array, something like those in the finest Italian line engravings.  But these
arrived, and the captain was forced to enlist some of the more civilized
arrived, and we duly met the ship Jungfrau, Derick De Deer, master, of
as a backwoodsman swings his rifle from the wall.  It is customary to have two
as almost to defy pursuit for the time.  At this juncture, the Pequod's keel
as if that capstan were a sideboard.  Nor was Stubb the only banqueter on
as in a drought a river will flow, whose source is in the well-springs of
as it seemed, had broken away from the boat, carrying along with him half of
as it withdraws from the air a certain element, which being subsequently
as many Sperm Whales had been captured off the western coast of Java, in the
as must have been seen, even at the present day, small detached bands are
as ordinary fish possess what is called a swimming bladder in them, capable,
as silently following.  Whatever superstitions the sperm whalemen in general
as the buffalo's (which is esteemed a rare dish), were it not such a solid
as the vacant profile of the whale; which, so far as picturesqueness of
as they will not fail to elucidate several most important, however intricate
as token of prior possession, should the boats of any other ship draw near.
as we eighteen men with our thirty-six arms, and one hundred and eighty
as when long filled with thoughts of war the Eastern nations saw armies locked
as you may say.  But what I am driving at here is this.  That same infinitely
as you may say; this seems so outlandish a thing that one must needs go a
as, after deep sounding, he floats up again, and shows the slackened curling
aslant.  To cross to the other side of the deck was like walking up the steep
assailant.  Dissect him how I may, then, I but go skin deep; I know him not,
assault.  Yes, a mighty change had come over the fish.  All alive to his
astern --St. Bernard's dogs, you know --relieve distressed travellers.
astern!  The vast tackles have now done their duty.  The peeled white body of
astern, and likewise to secure one which Flask had killed and waifed.  The
astonishing atmospheric weight we ourselves stand up under; even here,
at any rate; and his stump as unquestionable a stump as any you will find in
at every new gash, as the eager Israelites did at the new bursting fountains
at him, with an Et tu Brute!  expression.  It is not, perhaps, entirely
at last, a swift, startling snap is heard; with a great swash the ship rolls
at once a queer accident happened.  Whether it was that Tashtego, that wild
at one and the same time.  In this straining, bawling state, then, with his
at that hanging lower lip!  what a huge sulk and pout is there!  a sulk and
at will, of distension or contraction; and as the Sperm Whale, as far as I
at.  But supplementary to this, it has hypothetically occurred to me, that
atheistical devils were infernally cheering him on with their curses; --when
atmospheric distension and contraction.  If this be so, fancy the
attached to one end of the whip; while the other end, being stretched across
attached to the harpoon.  In these instances, the whale of course is shifted
attached to the short-warp --the rope which is immediately connected with the
attached, every captain is provided with it.  Thereby, the whale commanders
attacks on the Sperm and Right Whale.  In the first engraving a noble Sperm
attempt weighing a Dutch barn in jewellers' scales The Pequod's whale being
augment; yet for ever and for ever, to the crack of doom, the sea will
august hump, if I mistake not, rises over one of the larger vertebrae, and
authentic abortions; that is, from a Chinese drawing.  And what sort of
avast, I say with your handspikes, and run one of ye for a prayer book and a
away the long blanket-piece as if it were a great live mass of plaited
away, they at last became almost invisible to the men at the mast-head.  But
awhile, still in tantalizing vicinity to young Lothario, like pious Solomon
azure sky, upon the fair face of the pleasant sea, wafted by the joyous
back to the fish, all at once the exhausted harpooneer hears the exciting cry
background, both drooping together in the breezeless air.  The effect is very
backs, so to speak; but, at the same time, also, two fronts (side fronts):
backs.  In another plate, the prodigious blunder is made of representing the
backs.  Owing to the density of the crowd of reposing whales, more
backward toss.  The unmannerly Dutch dogger!  cried Stubb.  Pull now,
backwards, so as to furnish more of a retreat for the long socket which
balls.  The more I consider this mighty tail, the more do I deplore my
bands are known as schools.  They generally are of two sorts; those composed
banquet that was going on so nigh him, no more than the sharks heeded the
barbs; and darted over the head of the German harpooneer, their three
bare, blackened elevations of the soil; even so, often, with him, who for the
be but the skin?  True, from the unmarred dead body of the whale, you may
be described, as well as for the better understanding of all similar scenes
be found among the oldest Hindoo, Egyptian, and Grecian sculptures.  For ever
be in sight, the fishermen will seldom give chase to one of these Grand
be in, its flexions are invariably marked by exceeding grace.  Therein no
be lodged there.  Here is a vital point; for you must either satisfactorily
be made.  Here be it said, that like the vessels of military marines, the
be sagaciously urged, how is this?  We thought the tissued, infiltrated head
be seen.  But I cannot completely make out his back parts; and hint what he
be so good as to bring the priest also, Don?" "Though there are no
be the devil in disguise.  Do you believe that cock and bull story about his
be too fastidious in your curiosity touching this Leviathan.
be very long in following.  Can you catch the expression of the Sperm Whale's
be, and yet, that down to this blessed minute (fifteen and a quarter
beached, and drawn up to the roots of the cocoa-nut trees, Steelkilt made sail
beadle on his throne.  In some particulars, perhaps, the most imposing
beautiful crystalline shoots, as when the first thin delicate ice is just
became incarnate in a whale, and sounding down in him to the uttermost
because no vital part of him had thus far been struck.  His life, as they
because of its incredible power of swimming.  Nevertheless, the Fin-Back's
because the boat is rocking like a cradle, and you are pitched one way and
because the whale is so excessively unctuous that landsmen seem to regard the
becharmed panic which it was impossible not to marvel at.  Like household dogs
becomes impossible for the harpooneer, however lightning-like in his
been gained, were now in long quick coils flung back all dripping into the
before any of them actually came into being.  No wonder then, that in some
before described.  But as the stumps of harpoons are frequently found in the
before long, Flask.  But I am going now to keep a sharp look-out on him; and
before reaching that point, it blisteringly passed through and through both
before the wind, which for centuries past, by night and by day, have passed
before?  it must be, he's lost his tiller.  As an overladen Indiaman bearing
begun upon his whole arterial system; and when this is heightened by the
beheld clinging to the pendulous tackles, while poor, buried-alive
behind him to upbubble.  Who's got some paregoric?  said Stubb, he has the
behind it.  If your bitterest foe were walking straight towards you, with
behind its vast outworks, like the innermost citadel within the amplified
being looped, it can in a moment be fastened to a harpoon.  It is chiefly
being more tight than a harpstring, you would have thought the craft had two
being not unwilling to let him have the opportunity, despite all the
being pitched out too, when you strike a hill.  Hurrah!  this is the way a
being well seasoned and spiced might be taken for turtle-balls or veal balls.
being, inasmuch as it is an undisputed fact that he is never found on
believe that such bulky masses of overgrowth can possibly be instinct, in all
belong to the church?  Passed one once in Cape-Down, said the old man
belong, but only as the Anak of the tribe.
belong, though but subordinately, to so emblazoned a fraternity.  The gallant
beloved fellow-creatures, have you, cook!  And yet you come here, and tell
below the surface; and only by inference is it that any one can tell of what,
beneath them by the cords.  By very heedful management, when the ship drew
berry brig mout, brigger dan oders; but den de brig mouts sometimes has de
berry joosy.  Cook, said Stubb, squaring himself once more; do you
best be likened to the hollow made by a carpenter in countersinking for a
best contradictory authorities, this Grecian story of Hercules and the whale
best; for it is but reasonable to presume, that the longer the stricken
bestowed upon it; in which case you will take great interest in thinking how
betrayed him; whichever way it might have been, no sooner did he distinctly
better than theirs; but, by great odds, Beale's is the best.  All Beale's
better, an Indian poncho slipt over his head, and skirting his extremity.  It
between the islands of Sumatra and Java, freighted with the costliest cargoes
between the outside layers.  This triune structure, as much as anything else,
between this Ottoman and his concubines is striking; because, while he is
between two whales into the innermost heart of the shoal, as if from some
beyond also rose to sight, and once more the boats were free
billow that he broke, he spasmodically sank in the sea, or sideways rolled
bird's nest in its crotch.  At any rate, when you watch those live crabs that
bite off de blubber for de small fry ob sharks, dat can't get into de scrouge
bitin' dare?  Cook, cried Stubb, collaring him, I wont have that swearing.
black or speckled.  In life but few of them would have helped the whale, I
black weedy bulk in the sea like some mossy rock-slide from the Patagonian
blasphemer's end!  Ahab stolidly turned aside; then said to Mayhew,
blemish at all.  Nay, it is an added grandeur.  A nose to the whale would have
blending atmosphere of bluish haze, showed like the thousand cheerful chimneys
blew on; but the breeze came faster than the ship, and soon the Pequod began
blinds and whiskers for a moment, and, standing in the Right Whale's mouth,
blinds of bone; no huge lower lip; and scarcely anything of a tongue.  Again,
block the great blubber hook, weighing some one hundred pounds, was attached.
block towards the tub, so as in the act of coiling to free it from all
blood in a man could be aerated with one breath, he might then seal up his
blood, with swift fury blindly darted at the craft, bespattering them and
bloody-minded soldadoes?  Did ye read it there, Flask?  I guess ye did?  No;
blow from the elephant's trunk were as the playful tap of a fan, compared with
blubber-room gentlemen coiling, the mates scarfing, the ship straining, and
blubber-room.  Into this twilight apartment sundry nimble hands keep coiling
blubber.  Among the Dutch whalemen these scraps are called fritters; which,
blubber.  Now as the blubber envelopes the whale precisely as the rind does an
board.  As the three boats lay there on that gently rolling sea, gazing down
board.  Is this the creature of whom it was once so triumphantly said -- Canst
boarding-sword, and watching his chance he dexterously slices out a
boat in its complicated coils, twisting and writhing around it in almost
boat up to him, while yet the boat was being towed on.  Soon ranging up by
boat's bottom --and by the Lord, the mast there's budding.  This won't do,
boat, and one morning not long after the German ship Jungfrau disappeared,
boat, hurriedly pushing off from this scene of activity, is about giving
boats, and soon the whale broke water within two ship's lengths of the
boats.  But no sooner did the herd, by some presumed wonderful instinct of
boats; the timidity and liability to queer frights, so common to such whales;
body itself.  Nor is this all.  In some instances, to the quick, observant
body that a cry was heard from the Pequod's mast-heads, announcing that the
boiling spray, so that the imperilled craft, instantly dropping astern, had
boldly striking out with one hand, and with the other clutching the long hair
bone in the Right Whale; his Venetian blinds alone sometimes weighing more
boneless toughness,  inestimable by any man who has not handled it.  The
bones of millions of the drowned; there, in that awful water-land, there was
bones of the monster that Perseus slew.  When the Romans took Joppa, the same
boots, don't he?  He hasn't got any hammock; but I've seen him lay of nights
borne a righteous husband to outstretched, longing arms.  O head!  thou hast
both bows, at the distance of some two or three miles, and forming a great
both whales had dropped astern; and the head-laden ship not a little resembled
bottom as the seat slid from under him.  On both sides the sea came in at the
bottom.  Nor is it to be doubted that as such a procedure can do no harm, it
bottomless profundities the gigantic tail seems spasmodically snatching at the
bound to China from the west, emerge into the China seas.  Those narrow straits
bow of his hoisted boat, then you quick see him 'parm whale.  The next day
bowed his arched back still further over, at the same time sideways inclining
bows; a ceaseless whirling eddy in her wake; and, at the slightest motion
bowsman!  and, facing round towards the whale, all hands began pulling the
boys --that's all.  Start her!  Woo-hoo!  Wa-hee!  screamed the Gay-Header in
boys.  Look at that Yarman!  The short and long of it is, men, will ye spit
braining feats; I trust you will have renounced all ignorant incredulity,
branches, like the cleft drooping boughs of a willow, the single
brandy?  A hogshead of brandy, then, to the best man.  Come, why don't some of
brawny, buoyant heroes do sometimes sink.  Be it said, however, that the Sperm
breast, as if leading two different lives at the time; and while yet drawing
breath, or so much as in any way inhaling a particle of air; for, remember,
breathe he must, or die he will.  But the Sperm Whale only breathes about one
breathe through his mouth, for, in his ordinary attitude, the Sperm Whale's
breaths you alarm him, so that he sounds, he will be always dodging up again
bred'ren, just try wonst to be cibil, a helping yourselbs from dat whale.
breeze to us!  Better and better, man.  Would now St.  Paul would come along
breezes, that great mass of death floats on and on, till lost in infinite
brigandish expression to his otherwise solemn countenance.
bright steel spans the foaming distance, and quivers in the life spot of the
brilliance and beauty of many of its most remorseless tribes, as the dainty
brine into the air.  clear away the boats!  luff!  cried Ahab.  And obeying
bring your mind to bear on it, the other will be utterly excluded from your
brisk.
bristles, fins, whiskers, blinds, or whatever you please, furnish to
broad view, the Right Whale's head bears a rather inelegant resemblance to a
broad waters beyond; then, the harpooneers seemed more to grieve that the
broke out in a freshet.  He announced himself as the archangel Gabriel, and
broken teeth, scolloped fins; and in some instances, wrenched and dislocated
brought about new revelations of the incredible ferocity of the foe.  They
brought into contact with the blood imparts to the blood its vivifying
bulk he assigns it.  By some naturalists who have vaguely heard rumors of the
bulk, and now and then partly turning over on his cumbrous rib-ends, expose
bulwarks, and no one by; look down there, Flask --pointing into the sea with
bulwarks.  Vacantly eyeing the heaving whale for a moment, he issued the usual
buoyant matter in him.  But it is not so.  For young whales, in the highest
buoyed up by its native element.  And there with the strained craft steeply
buried harpooneer should grasp it, and so be hoisted out.  In heaven's name,
buried; and though one or two other like instances might be set down,
buries, rolls, and wallows on her way; so did this old whale heave his aged
burnt without any oil.
business, carrying the line high aloft and then reeving it downwards through a
business.  But, in general, they toil with their jack-knives alone; and, with
but doubts or denials, few along with them, have intuitions.  Doubts of all
but he had not gained his ship's side, when whales were almost simultaneously
but if ever I get a chance of a dark night, and he standing hard by the
but in many scientific presentations of him.  Now, by all odds, the most
but in so important a matter it was certainly an oversight not to have
but not old; who, upon any alarm, evinces his gallantry by falling in the
but not the less true events, perhaps anywhere to be found in all recorded
but so as to form one round, cheese-shaped mass of densely bedded sheaves,
but straightway upon the ship's getting out of sight of land, his insanity
but upon the island of Nantucket, the widow of Radney still turns to the sea
but with such a steady tranquillity, and making so few ripples as he swam,
by a few rapid blows against the gunwale, then again and again sent it into
by a ladder to the summit, have a peep down the mouth; and were it not that
by his living hunters.  But, taken for all in all, by far the finest, though
by no means adds to the rope's durability or strength, however much it may
by one of those occasional caprices of the seas were tumbling, not heaving it.
by some experienced whaleman.  The French are the lads for painting action.
by the head to the stern, and by the tail to the bows, the whale now lies
by the other parts of the head remaining undetached from it, so that it sank
by the stiffest fluke-chains, for it was plain that unless artificially
by the subtle moisture thrown off by the whale in his more quiet moods.  Yes,
by the unusual yellowish incrustations overgrowing him, seemed afflicted
by the wonderful comparative magnitude of his spinal cord.  But leaving this
by this tooth, and look about us where we are.  What a really beautiful and
cabinet there is no telling.  But a sudden stop was put to further
cable till the body is stripped.  That done, if it belong to a small whale it
called by the fishermen a school, so is the lord and master of that school
calm, like a universal yellow lotus, was more and more unfolding its
calmly eyeing the right whale's head, and ever and anon glancing from the deep
calves had been purposely locked up in this innermost fold; and as if the
can fill your dam bellies up to de hatchings, but by Gor!  you must stop dat
can't hear not'ing at all, no more, for eber and eber.  Upon my soul, I am
can't remember where.  Three Spaniards?  Adventures of those three
canal is filled with much the same strangely fibrous substance -- the spinal
canal of the Sperm Whale, chiefly intended as it is for the conveyance of air,
candelabra in the library of one of his executors, correctly conveys the idea
cannot get at it from the boat, in order to put the chain round it.  But
canted over her spasmodic gunwale into the sea.  Thus they rushed; each man
capacity.  Now, of course, this
capsized, if still persisting in locking arms with the body; then, when the
capsizing, and he thundering away at his men in a mighty rage; --that was a
captain had this veracious picture taken for the benefit of his marines.  To
captain, the stranger in question waved his hand from his boat's stern in
captain, why did ye not give us Jonah looking out of that eye!  Nor are the
captured Sperm Whale, after long and weary toil, is brought alongside late at
captured and a corpse.  Consider, now, how it must be in the case of four boats
caravan, Moby Dick himself might not temporarily be swimming, like the
carcase sank.  Now, this occasional inevitable sinking of the recently killed
carrying on eternal war since the world began.  Consider all this; and then
carved into a snake's head, Stubb?  Sink him!  I never look at him at all;
case of ordinary ropes; for while tar, as ordinarily used, makes the hemp
cases this lower jaw --being easily unhinged by a practised artist --is
cases, the boats at once separated, each making for some one lone whale on
casket of the skull is broken into with an axe, and the two plump, whitish
caught nigh the paddle-wheels of an ocean steamer.  Thus, the foreground is
cause of its stopping; or, possibly, being so young, unsophisticated, and
cause the most terrible duels among their rival admirers; just so with the
causes it to sink low beneath the surface; so that with the hand you
central body of it is hidden in the snowy sparkling mist enveloping it; and
central expanse the sea presented that smooth satin-like surface, called a
centuries ago the tongue of the Right Whale was esteemed a great delicacy in
centuries back, thousands of hunters should have been close by the fountain
certainty of this criterion is far from demonstrable, yet it has the savor of
chance of encountering them in the four oceans.  Thus, most letters never
chance.  Now, if he's so old as all those hoops of yours come to, and if he
chanced to hit one of many marks in the wide margin allowed.  He became a
chapter.  According to the invariable usage of the fishery, the whale-boat
character, however admirably satirical, that after going to school himself,
characteristics of other beings than man.  Therefore, though I am but ill
charge of crowned centaurs?  Not wholly unworthy of a place in that gallery,
chase to whales in the distance.  The harpoons and lances lie levelled for
chase, this natural line, with the maternal end loose, becomes entangled
chased, and in the after one the bloodthirsty pirates chasing him; some
chaste-looking mouth!  from floor to ceiling, lined, or rather papered with a
child-magian thoughts.  they deified the crocodile of the nile, because the
chin.  Next moment with a rapid, nameless impulse, in a superb lofty arch the
christened the Shark, the Gull, the Eagle.  Nor have there been wanting
chronicled --of this man or that man being taken out of the boat by the line,
chronicled them.  Nor when expandingly lifted by your subject, can you fail to
churches you will see sheet-iron whales placed there for weather-cocks; but
churning through the water, violently flailing with his flexible tail, and
churning, as if cautiously seeking to feel after some gold watch that the
circles, and inclusive of the spaces between the various pods in any one of
circumnavigating Pequod would sweep almost all the known Sperm Whale cruising
circumstanced without a shudder that makes the very marrow in his bones to
circumstances, is in no wise unprecedented; and indeed is almost always more
civilization inevitably restores a man to that condition in which God placed
clanking links, the vast corpse itself, not the ship, is to be moored.  Tied
clap t'other a'top of your heart, when I'm giving my orders, cook.  What!
clean out of sight!  Man overboard!  cried Daggoo, who amid the general
clearing the whip --which had somehow got foul of the great cutting tackles --a
cliffs.  His jets are erect, full, and black like soot; so that from so
close ranks and battalions, so that their spouts all looked like flashing
close under our lee, not forty fathoms off, a gigantic Sperm Whale lay rolling
close-grained beef, but tougher, more elastic and compact, and ranges from
closed eyes; like vices my hands grasped the shrouds; some invisible,
closely as so many spans of horses in harness.  They left a
clumped together at last in one dense body, they then renewed their onward
clutched it in an instant, seized the boat-knife, and impaling the letter on
coiled away in his pocket, I guess.  Blast him!  now that I think of it, he's
coils it down, do ye see, in the eye of the rigging.  What's the old man
coils of box line (mentioned in a preceding chapter) making this feat, in
coins, the dolphin was drawn in scales of chain-armor like Saladin's, and a
come to the hull, that at first it seemed as if he meant it malice; but
come.  His three whales are as good whales as were ever published in Wapping,
coming famine; it will be more tolerable for that provident Fejee, I say, in
coming to specialties, where, for example, does the ocean furnish any fish
command was given to break clear from it, such was the immovable strain upon
command, came to a dead stop on the opposite side of Stubb's sideboard;
commanded the captain to jump overboard.  He published his manifesto, whereby
common language, the word is now completely obsolete.  When the polite
commotion.  And still in the distracted distance we beheld the tumults of the
communicates with the spouting canal; but it cannot be proved that this is
communication.  Preserving an interval of some few yards between itself and
completely disengaged from everything.  This arrangement of the lower end is
completely overtake and pass him.  as for derick, he seemed quite confident
complicated channels and straits, knowing not at what moment it may be
composing the crew pull into the jaws of death, with a halter around every
comprehensive, combining, and subtle than man's, that he can at the same
conciliating the devil.  But, as yet, Stubb heeded not the mumblings of the
concluded; and when, accordingly, Queequeg and a forecastle seaman came on
concluding by hinting that his ship was indeed what in the Fishery is
conclusion I am impelled, by considerations touching the great inherent
congregate, and most hilariously feast; yet is there no conceivable time or
connect the ideas of mildness and repose with the first sight of the
conquest, betrayed an unusual but still good-natured excitement.  Such an
consecutive great battles of France; where every sword seems a flash of the
consequence of being kept in a dark locker of the cabin.  Of such a letter,
considerable hole in the lower part of the swaying mass.  Into this hole, the
consideration will teach, that however baby man may brag of his science and
consisting of only two parts, travelling through a single-sheaved block.
consternation first came to his senses.  Swing the bucket this way!  and
consternations and affrights, did these inscrutable creatures at the centre
contact with other whales; for I have most remarked them in the large,
contact, any merely hard substance,
contains it in itself, as the seemingly harmless rifle holds the fatal powder,
contemporary consciousness.  How is it, then, with the whale?  True, both his
contending strain threatened to take them under.  But it was only a few feet
contingency provided for in suckling by two teats, curiously situated, one
continue hanging there a while till we can get a chance to attend to it.  For
contortions be put in play like ringed lightnings; he cannot be thus
contour between a young sucking whale and a full-grown Platonian Leviathan;
contracting his spout-hole, with sharp, cracking, agonized respirations.  At
contracting orbits the whales in the more central circles began to swim in
contracts and thickens, but becomes rather hard and brittle.  I have several
contradict the old proverb about carrying coals to Newcastle, yet sometimes
convenient to the sailor for common ship use; yet, not only would the ordinary
conversation was sustained between the two parties; but at intervals not
convolutions, to their apprehensions, it seems more in keeping with the idea
cook, and don't know yet how to cook a whale-steak?  rapidly bolting another
cooked whales; but the Esquimaux are not so fastidious.  We all know how they
cool season there, and so evade the other excessive temperature of the year.
cord --as the brain; and directly communicates with the brain.  And what is
cord remains of an undecreasing girth, almost equal to that of the brain.
corpse in the sea; and it seemed hardly to budge at all, except at long
corpse of Goethe, he was overwhelmed with the massive chest of the man, that
correspond.  But much abatement is necessary with respect to the incredible
costly material the heidelburgh Tun was coated within, but in superlative
could hook it out.  But that gold watch he sought was the innermost life of
could not hope to reach her.  So the signal was set to see what response would
counted upon the honor of the capture.  It was obvious, now, that the whale
countries of India, the stranger at a distance will sometimes pass on the
country-schoolmaster that famous Frenchman was in his younger days, and what
country?  he cried, sharply.  No, you didn't, cook; but I'll tell you what
course, went round the stern of the ship towing the two boats after him, so
covenant for mutual assistance and protection.  To this aggregation of the
covering.  However recklessly the whale may sometimes serve us, said
crabs, shell-fish, and other sea candies and maccaroni, which the Right Whale
craft, takes his proper station in the bows of the boat.  Now, I care not who
crater -- in another cavity seldom exceeding ten inches in length and as many
crater to bed that part of the mass; while under the long floor of this
creatures glide under water, unapparent for the most part, and treacherously
creatures which itself hath spawned.  Like a savage tigress that tossing in
creatures, nay in man himself, very often the brow is but a mere strip of
creatures, that warm themselves under the lee of an iceberg, as a traveller
crescent in our van, we beheld another in our rear.  It seemed formed of
crew remained untainted, and though his ship was half a rifle-shot off, and
cried Queequeg, looking over the gunwale; him fast!  him fast! --Who line
cried Starbuck, there's no need of that!  But humane Starbuck was too late.
cried Starbuck.  Look-e here, said Queequeg pointing down.  As when the
cried Starbuck; he mocks and dares me with the very poor-box I filled for
cripple the graceful flexion of its motions; where infantileness of ease
critical ice, which will bear up a considerable distributed weight, but
crocodile is tongueless; and the Sperm Whale has no tongue, or as least it
cross each other's grain at right angles; a line of considerable length is
crossed by random whales, all violently making for one centre.  This lucky
crossing the waterless desert carries a surplus supply of drink for future use
crowbars.  By itself this sufficiently illustrates the obvious fact I drive
crown bone, form those Venetian blinds which have elsewhere been cursorily
crown has been put together for him in this marvellous manner.  But if this
cruisers, the audacity of these corsairs has of late been somewhat repressed;
cruising; therefore, as the Pequod gained more and more upon Java Head, the
cubic-yards of his sperm magazine.  Lying in strange folds, courses, and
cucumbers is the word --easy, easy --only start her like grim death and
cupola, monument, or tower of some sort, is deemed almost indispensable to
curious articles, including canes, umbrella-stocks, and handles to
curious internal structure of the thing operated upon.  Regarding the Sperm
curious things about this Leviathan, that his skeleton gives very little idea
curled brow of the bull has a touch of the grand in it.  Pushing heavy cannon
cutting-spade, to which is attached a rope for hauling it back again.  A
cuttle-fish, to which, indeed, in certain external respects it would seem to
d'ye say, Tashtego; are you the man to snap your spine in two-and-twenty
dagger uplifted in broad day, you would not be able to see him, any more
daintiness of the elephant's trunk.  This delicacy is chiefly evinced in the
dam racket!  Cook, here interposed Stubb, accompanying the word with a
dangling, sharp-edged
dare.  you hear?  stop dat dam smackin' ob de lip!  massa Stubb say dat you
dart, the heavy implement has to be flung to the distance of twenty or thirty
darted without recovery.  All these particulars are faithfully narrated here,
darting to and fro across the circles, was nothing to what at last met our
darts are counted as stubble; he laugheth at the shaking of a spear!  This
dashed the sea-water into it.  More turns were taken, so that the line began
dashing among the revolving circles like the lone mounted desperado
day old, might have measured some fourteen feet in length, and some six feet
de tail!  How you tink to hear, 'spose you keep up such a dam slappin' and
dead bodies of captured whales, with the flesh perfectly healed around them,
dead, some vague dissatisfaction, or impatience, or despair, seemed working
decapitated and the body stripped, the head was hoisted against the ship's
decision about the propriety of devil-worship, and the expediency of
deck to see that all goes well.  But sometimes, especially upon the Line in the
deck, ahab abruptly accosted him, without at all heeding what he had in his
deck, let us now have a good long look at the Right Whale's head.  As in
deck, no small excitement was created among the sharks; for immediately
deck, such is then the outlandish, eel-like, limbered, varying shape of him,
deck-table are
declare it to be the largest animated thing in the ocean, yet very few of
declared these things; --the dark, daring play of his sleepless, excited
deep, as with so many sprinkling or mistifying pots; and that for some
deep.  Any man may kill a snake, but only a Perseus, a St.  George, a Coffin,
deeper men than Doctor Johnson who believe in them.
deeper midnight of the insatiate maw; and his murderers still sailed on
deficiency, because it is by such pictures only, when at all well done,
defined than in the crescentic borders of these flukes.  At its utmost
deformities floundering in seas of blood and blue paint.  but these manifold
defray the current expenses of the war (at least before realizing the
degree of exactness.  So there is no earthly way of finding out precisely what
deliberate coolness and equanimity in the direst emergencies, was specially
delirious throb.  As, blind and deaf, the whale plunged forward, as if by sheer
deliver my message.  Here, take this lantern, snatching one from his
deliverance, or rather, delivery of Tashtego, was successfully accomplished,
delivery to the persons to whom they may be addressed, depends upon the mere
demanded Ahab, when the boat drifted back.  Think, think of thy whale-boat,
demi-gods and heroes, prophets of all sorts, who one way or other have shed
denizens of more stirring waters, than those off the Rio de la Plata, or the
dense enveloping layer from the whale's body but that same blubber; and the
dentistical-looking implements, specially intended for the skrimshandering
depression in the forehead's middle, which, in man, is Lavater's mark of
depths, rescued the sacred volumes.  Was not this Vishnoo a whaleman, then?
descended from heaven by the way of a trap-door, announcing the speedy
descending for good?  How obvious is it, too, that this necessity for the
desert; even then, the whale always carries a small basin of water on his
designated by Stubb; comprising the tapering extremity of the body.  About
desired position.  Well, said Stubb, helping himself freely meanwhile; I
destroyed the wrecked ships of last year.  Yea, foolish mortals, Noah's flood
detached companies, as in former times, are now frequently met with in
detached white vapors, rising and falling something like the spouts of the
devil kidnapped, he'd roast for him?  There's a governor!  Do you suppose
devil?  Who's afraid of him, except the old governor who daresn't catch him
devilish easy and gentlemanlike, and inquiring if the old governor was at
devoutly believe in the historical story of Jonah.  And some three centuries
devoutly worshipping among his thousand concubines.  Granting other whales to
dexterous heave and toss, had wrought a somerset upon the Indian; so that
did indubitably conduct a lamp-feeder as Flask did declare.  As he mounted the
didn't you, and now look yourself, and see where your tongs are pointing.
differ the sea and the land, that a miracle upon one is not a miracle upon
difference: about the head this envelope, though not so thick, is of a
different heads.  To sum up, then; in the Right Whale's there is no great
dignity and sublimity of the Sperm Whale; I account him no common, shallow
dignity.  In the present instance, too, this dignity is heightened by the
diligently seeking to insure a crop of hair from the craft's bald keel.  He
diminish; though that way viewed, its grandeur does not domineer upon you
diminished, by vigorously stirring them up with sharp whaling-spades, a
dining upon calves' brains, by and by get to have a little brains of their
disasters have immemorially and indiscriminately befallen tens and hundreds
disbands the harem, and grown to an exemplary, sulky old soul, goes about
disciple Spurzheim failed to throw out some hints touching the phrenological
disciples among the crew, that at last in a body they went to the captain and
disciples believed that he had specifically fore-announced it, instead of
discolored bunch or protuberance, the size of a bushel, low down on the flank.
discovered.  What other marvels might have been rummaged out of this monstrous
discoveries, by the ship's being unprecedentedly dragged over sideways to the
disengaged and hoisted on deck for the purpose of extracting the ivory teeth,
disgorge what are supposed to be the detached arms of the squid; some of them
dish, as if stabbing with his lance; cook, you cook! --sail this way, cook!
dish, is his exceeding richness.  He is the great prize ox of the sea, too
disposing of the body of a right whale, when brought alongside the ship, the
distance from the ship.  It was a calm; so, forming a tandem of three boats,
distances, and with no small facility.  The Pequod's signal was at last
distinct windows, but sadly impairing the view.  This peculiarity of the
distinction upon it, I am transported with the reflection that I myself
dive into this matter of whaling, and push my researches up to the very
diver could be seen.  Some hands now jumped into a boat alongside, and pushed
divide it into two quoins, whereof the lower is the bony structure, forming
divided by an internal wall of a thick tendinous substance.  The lower
divinity.  Now, while Macey, the mate, was standing up in his boat's bow, and
does he want of them?  No roses, no violets, no Cologne-water in the sea.
does, he would not stop there, for the doomed boat would infallibly be
doing nothing particular to prove it.  It is moreover declared in his
domineering fortresses which guard the entrances to the Mediterranean, the
don't budge an inch --we're becalmed.  Halloo, here's grass growing in the
done, dish it; d'ye hear?  And now to-morrow, cook, when we are cutting in
done, or else it's no go.  But none of us are in heaven yet.  Drop your
double, in order to bring down his centre of gravity.  Whole Atlantics and
down as one of the whaleman's self-derived savageries.  Much the same is it
down his motionless flanks into the sea.  His heart had burst!  He's dead,
down the Hindostan coast with a deck load of frightened horses, careens,
down to the human magnitude) among a plate of men's skulls, and you would
down, come down!  yelled the seamen to Daggoo, but
down; wedder Fejee god or Nantucket god; but de god wat made shark must be
downward strain at the bows, the boats gave a sudden bounce upwards, as a
dozen yards round the waist.  Nevertheless, it cannot be denied, that upon the
dragged down after him into the profundity of the sea; and in that case no
dragged right towards the ship by the towing whale.  So close did the monster
draw confidentially close to one of the ladies, with what prodigious fury the
drawings of this whale are good, excepting the middle figure in the picture of
dromedary that of a sudden rose bodily to the surface, and for an instant
drop, he would still remain suspended; the negro having cleared the foul
dropped into the sea, like Niagara's Table-Rock into the whirlpool; the
dropping a boat, her captain was impelled towards us, impatiently standing
dropping and dropping the pirates astern, the Pequod at last shot by the
drugg comes into requisition.  Our boat was furnished with three of them.
drugged-harpoons, were it not that as we advanced into the herd, our whale's
dubious: for though according to the Greek mythologies, that antique
duck you, though -- yes, and drown you --what then?  I should like to see him
duty was now altogether dispensed with.  They chiefly attended to the shouting
each other, when heaven seemed false to them.  Thou saw'st the murdered mate
each young Leviathan from his amorous errors.  Now, as the harem of whales is
each, swiftly going round and round, like multiplied spans of horses in a
ears, or mouth; no face; he has none, proper; nothing but that one broad
earth, and now not even hovering in the air!  There's orthodoxy!  Thus, while
easily have over-arched the middle ones, and so have gone round on their
east when troubled with the morning.  in the repose of the pasture, the
eating of him with abhorrence; that appears to result, in some way, from the
eating.  The meat is made into balls about the size of billiard balls, and
edging away from that, whose colossal flukes were suspended overhead, while
effect is concerned, is about tantamount to sketching the profile of a
effectually divided as they are by many cubic feet of solid head, which
egotistical sky; in the now unhaunted hill; then be sure, exalted to Jove's
eight or ten to twelve and fifteen inches in thickness.  Now, however
eight whales, an average pod.  Aware of their danger, they were going all
either practically conversant with his subject, or else marvellously tutored
either sensation or instinct; but undulated there on the billows, an
ejaculation he went to his hammock.
elastic white fibres throughout its whole extent.  The upper part, known as
element it is a thing eternally impossible for mortal man to hoist
elephant is preposterous, inasmuch as in that particular the elephant
elephant, I then testified of the whale, pronouncing him the most devout of
elephant, so far as some aspects of the tail of the one and the trunk of the
elsewhere presented, I have here to speak of the magical, sometimes horrible
embellished shape of many species of sharks.  Consider, once more, the
embodiment of adoration of the gods was never beheld, even in Persia, the
encompassed by all the horrors of the half known life.
end of the rope, till it is caught and firmly held by a hand on deck.  Then,
end of the second alternating great tackle is then hooked so as to retain a
end; and not only that, but a herd of remorseless wild pirates and inhuman
endangered prophet swam to, and so was saved from a watery doom.  Poor
endeavor we at last shot into a temporary
engravings of boat hooks, chopping knives, and grapnels; and with the
enormous cutting tackles, whose hempen combinations, on one side, make
enormous surface of him --in a full grown sperm whale something less than
enough in the good Bishop.  For truly, the Right Whale's mouth would
enterprises in which a careful disorderliness is the true method.  The more I
enters upon the impotent, repentant, admonitory stage of life, forswears,
entire strain now depended, seemed every instant to be on the point of giving
entirely under your chin.  Moreover you observe that the whale has no external
enveloped in the thickest and toughest of ox-hide.  That bravely and uninjured
equal to three tons.  In length, the common sperm whale-line measures
equality, much less the creatures to which they respectively belong.  For as
ere the boats were down, majestically turning, he swam away to the leeward,
erecting himself, while whole thunder-clouds swept aside from his brow.
escape being made a Mazeppa of, and run away with where the all-seeing sun
escape to another vessel near by, some vessel with a whale for a figure-head;
escape was at present afforded us.  We must watch for a breach in the living
especially if it descend to its mark, the stroke is then simply irresistible.
esteem, the whales salute more hominum.
estimated as piled wood is --by the cord; and all obedient to one volition, as
eternally stove and sunk by him.  Wherefore, it seems to me you had best not
even as a man who rides a horse is called a horseman?  Perseus, St.  George,
even by the immense tackles of a whaler, this were as vain a thing as to
even in the best cruising grounds, you may now sometimes sail for weeks and
even so these monsters swam, making a strange, grassy, cutting sound; and
even with the water, while the three sterns tilted high in the air.  And the
event clothed the archangel with added influence; because his credulous
ever set apart and sanctified the whale.  When Brahma, or the God of Gods,
ever-contracting gash thus made, he must skilfully steer clear of all
ever; declaring that the plague, as he called it, was at his sole command;
ever; who ever heard that the devil was dead?  Did you ever see any parson a
ever; yet not a modern sun ever sets, but in precisely the same manner the
every day encountered; while you may, then, you must kill all you can.  And
every direction.  All the oarsmen are involved in its perilous contortions; so
every rod that it so floats, what seem square roods of sharks and cubic roods
every sailor a butcher.  You would have thought we were offering up ten
every way innocent and inexperienced; however it may have been, these
everybody in the Jeroboam.  His story was this: He had been originally
evinced his customary activity, to call it so; yet now that the creature was
evinced his foolish pride of reason --a thing still more reprehensible in
evinced the activity of the other boats, still engaged in drugging the whales
exceedingly brisk in those Hyperborean waters; but these, be it observed, are
except under circumstances obvious to any fisherman.  I know that this would
excessive dismay.  But this occasional timidity is characteristic of almost
excite the civil scepticism of some parlor men, is admirably correct and
exercises boasts nothing like it.  It is only indispensable with an inveterate
exhibited
expansion in the full grown whale, the tail will considerably exceed twenty
expansive monster; when I shall show you some of his more inconsiderable
expect to go to, cook?
expected to pull his oar meanwhile to the uttermost; indeed, he is expected
experiment, that the blood of a Polar whale is warmer than that of a Borneo
exposure to the air, after death, it soon begins to concrete; sending forth
extending the entire length of the upper part of the boat, and from its now
extensive herd, so remarkable, occasionally, are these mystic gestures,
extensive herds, sometimes embracing so great a multitude, that it would
extraordinary pressure of water at a great distance below the surface, his
eye upon this strange, crested, comb-like incrustation on the top of the mass
eye, those linear marks, as in a veritable engraving, but afford the ground
eyes, in themselves, must simultaneously act; but is his brain so much more
eyes.  It is sometimes the custom when fast to a whale more than commonly
facing death?  This Right Whale I take to have been a Stoic; the Sperm
fact, placed before the strict and piercing truth, this whole story will
faded walnut tinge enveloped him; the overlapping sleeves of which were
fairly stepped upon there.  It may be worth while, therefore, previously to
fairy's arm can transcend it.  Five great motions are peculiar to it.  First,
falling into a cistern ashore; an accident which not seldom happens, and
fancied, that from the naked skeleton of the stranded whale, accurate hints
far-off and undiscernible hills.  Even now, when the boats pulled upon this
fare like that fish, flesh, and fowl idol of the Philistines, Dagon by name;
fasces of harpoons for spurs, would I could mount that whale and leap the
fashion.  And as those ancient dames moved about gaily, though in the jaws of
fashionables, they are for ever on the move in leisurely search of variety.
fat goose?  With a feather of the same fowl.  And with what quill did the
fat to be delicately good.  Look at his hump, which would be as fine eating
fathoms beneath the sunlight.  Not so much thy skill, then, O hunter, as the
fearful of expending more line, though the position was a little ticklish.
features; and since it perhaps
feeding season, having just returned, perhaps, from spending the summer in
feelings that you do those of the shore.  For though some old naturalists have
feet across.  The entire member seems a dense webbed bed of welded
feet for a good sized whale, you have more than twenty-six feet for the depth
feet of Korah and his company the live ground opened and swallowed them up for
feet.  But however prolonged and exhausting the chase, the harpooneer is
fell in with vast meadows of brit, the minute, yellow substance, upon which
fellow feels when he's going to Davy Jones --all a rush down an endless
felt them in his seat.  The next moment, relieved in a great part from the
female whales are characteristically timid, the young males, or
fetched Elijah?  And fetch him where?  Up dere, said Fleece, holding his
few are captured having the deep scars of these encounters, --furrowed heads,
fewer glimpses of porpoises, dolphins, flying-fish, and other vivacious
fibres and filaments, which passing on either side the loins and running down
fiercely demanding tribute at the point of their spears.  Though by the
fifty fair chances for a dart, not five are successful; no wonder that so
figure with the base downwards.  As it passes through the remaining vertebrae
fine, when considered with reference to its presenting the hardy fishermen
fire or not?  Oh!  see the suds he makes!  cried Flask, dancing up and down
firmament of a forehead, pleated with riddles; dumbly lowering with the doom
first boat always hovers at hand to assist its consort.  Second: This
first place, you are struck by the general contrast between these heads.
first time beholds this species of the leviathans of the sea.  And even when
fishery, upon whom these spikes fall with impaling force.  But far more
five men to man his boat.  With them he pushed off; and, after
flag which I fling half out to the world.  Apply this spinal branch of
flaming ship; heart to heart they sank beneath the exulting wave; true to
flat, and its upper end considerably narrower than the lower.  This weapon
fleetness.  Such unintermitted strainings upon the planted iron must sooner or
flesh from the back; this it is that often torments the Leviathan into soon
flesh perfectly firm about it.  Who had darted that stone lance?  And when?
flexible bows, bent round, and bit their own; till those entrails seemed
flight with augmented fleetness.  Further pursuit was useless; but the boats
floating body of a dead whale, both to mark its place on the sea, and also
floating in the sun, and the white spray heaving high against it;
floating posture of the leviathan the flukes lie considerably below the level
floats more and more away, the water round it torn and splashed by the
flood had come; they would only answer -- Well, boys, here's the ark!  Now,
fluke-chains, to pry them adrift from the timber-heads; and so low had the
flukes close by.  Riotous and disordered as the universal commotion now was,
flukes, and the lances were darted into him, they were followed by steady
flush and May of life, with all their panting lard about them; even these
foam; and the tall form of Tashtego at the steering oar crouching almost
followed him, had considerably the start of the Pequod's keels.  There were
for another outlet.  After many similar hair-breadth escapes, we at last
for ever escape.  But no sooner did his harpooneer stand up for the stroke,
for far other delineations.  These are hieroglyphical; that is, if you call
for his periodical visits to the upper world.  But he cannot in any degree
for his tail, take it to the capstan, and give him such a wrenching and
for his true brain, you can then see no indications of it, nor feel any.
for lowering.  The four boats were soon on the water; Ahab's in advance, and
for questioning the Hebrew story was this: --He had one of those quaint
for the Fejee that salted down a lean missionary in his cellar against a
for the Jeroboam's whaling voyage.  They engaged him;
for the convenience of ships and whales; conspicuous among which are the
for the future, when you cook another whale-steak for my private table here,
for the great head itself, that was doing as well as could be expected.  And
for the purpose of discharging water through the spiracle.  Because the
for the supremacy like elks that warringly interweave their antlers.  Not a
for the ulceration alluded to.  But still more curious was the fact of a
for what is it that makes the front of a man --what, indeed, but his eyes?
for, indeed, the calm is but the wrapper and envelope of the storm; and
force as to gouge deep grooves in them; while so fearful were the
forehead seem now faded away.  I think his broad brow to be full of a
forged along, as if laden with pig-lead in bulk.  Darkness came on; but
forgetfulness altogether came over me, I had noticed that the seamen at the
formed when two hostile currents meet.  His spout was short, slow, and
former the lips and tongue are separately removed and hoisted on deck, with
forming in water.  A large whale's case generally yields about five hundred
forth prophecies of speedy doom to the sacrilegious assailants of his
fortifications of Quebec.  So like a choice casket is it secreted in him,
forty feet ahead.  Handling the long lance lightly, glancing twice or thrice
forward-slanting spout of the Sperm Whale presents a thick curled bush of
found at home, immersed to his lips for life in those Arctic waters!  where,
found betokened in his backbone.  I would rather feel your spine than your
foundations.  Where unrecorded names and navies rust, and untold hopes and
free his white-ash, and while, in consequence, Derick's boat was nigh to
freely and fearlessly indulge in all peaceful concernments; yea, serenely
frequent interruptions from Gabriel, whenever his name was mentioned, and
fright.  First, the whales forming the margin of our lake began to crowd a
frightful roll and vomit, he turned upon his back a corpse.  While the two
fro I idly swayed in what seemed an enchanted air.  No resolution could
from Starbuck's hands, he caught it in the slit of the pole, and reached it
from a bluff-bowed sluggish galliot into a sharp-pointed New York
from a wedge in having its sharp end formed by the steep inclination of one
from afar; then the lake itself began faintly to heave and swell; the
from his head by the air-eddy made by the sudden tossing of a pair of broad
from his mouth.  Like desperadoes they tugged and they strained, till the
from his trance into that unspeakable thing called his flurry, the monster
from rowing; the boat drifted a little towards the ship's stern; so that, as
from some lucky point of view you will catch passing glimpses of the profiles
from some mighty fountain, and with half-stifled melancholy gurglings the
from the Pequod's fish-spears!  In that sloping afternoon sunlight, the
from the Shaster, which gives us the dread Vishnoo, one of the three persons
from the attack of a Sperm Whaler like the Pequod, with open jaws sluggishly
from the bottom against the side of the tub, and hanging over its edge
from the circumference of commotion, the direful disorders seemed waning.  So
from the glory of the exploit had St.  George but encountered a crawling
from the sea-monster or whale.  Where did Guido get the model of such a
from the spiracle of the whale, and vehement puff after puff from the mouth
from within, even but of a little finger, the vibrating, cracking craft
frontispiece, boats attacking Sperm Whales, though no doubt calculated to
frosty weather; she trembles, quivers, and nods her frighted mast-heads to
full cranial development.  So that this whole enormous boneless mass is as one
full, and dare bellies is bottomless; and when dey do get em full, dey wont
full-freighted vessel is caught by an appointed hand, and quickly emptied
full-grown bulls of the species.  A word or two more concerning this matter
full-lengths, the living Leviathan has never yet fairly floated himself for
furnishing a rest for the wooden extremity of the harpoon, whose other
gabled roof of a house.  The ship groaned and gasped.  Many of the ivory
gallery of living and breathing commotion on canvas, as in that triumphal
galley, for, like many old blacks, there was something the matter with his
gallons of sperm, though from unavoidable circumstances, considerable of it
game having risen to leeward, he and the other three German boats that soon
gave account of an immense body or herd of Sperm Whales, and there was also
general body, full of strangeness, and unaccountable to his most experienced
general shape the noble Sperm Whale's head may be compared to a Roman
general thing, and according to the great military maxim, make the enemy
generally the most serious result.  These submerged side blows are so often
generated in him; he swells to a prodigious magnitude; becomes a sort of
genius.  But how?  Genius in the Sperm Whale?  Has the Sperm Whale ever
gentle air impelling her keel, so that in the surrounding serenity her three
get it from an unquestionable source?  Bear with me if I seem to press."
getting the mass in readiness for towing, some conversation ensued between
ghost of a Fedallah saying so, and he seems to know all about ships' charms.
giant Holofernes's from the girdle of Judith.  When this last task was
gibbering insanity, pronouncing the White Whale to be no less a being than the
gigantic galliot-toed shoe.  Two hundred years ago an old Dutch voyager
give it compactness and gloss.  Of late years the Manilla rope has in the
giving battle to Moby Dick, in the sea he was most known to frequent; and at
glassy level of a sea becalmed, the drooping unstarched sails of the
gleamed.  It seemed not a whale; and yet is this Moby Dick?  thought Daggoo.
glistening white membrane, glossy as bridal satins.  But come out now, and
glued in amber.  But more surprising is it to know, as has been proved by
go for it; but are you well advised?  this may grow too serious." "Will you
go on, go on.  Well, den, Belubed fellow-critters: -- Right!  exclaimed
goaded by it into more than sufferable anguish, the whale now spouting thick
god made him shark, said the savage, agonizingly lifting his hand up and
god-dam, --cried the Indian.  Fiercely, but evenly incited by the taunts of
goin' ober de Roanoke.  Born in a ferry-boat!  That's queer, too.  But I want
going a whaling yourself; but by so doing, you run no small risk of being
going head out, and sending his spout before him in a continual tormented
golden finger laid across them, enjoining some secresy; when the slippered
gone, and not a single flying-fish yet captured to supply the deficiency;
good a one.  In the second engraving, the boat is in the act of drawing
good time for Starbuck, Stubb, and Flask.  With a shout, they took a mortal
governor, "What business is that of yours," says the devil, getting mad, --"I
gracious agency preserved me; with a shock I came back to life.  And lo!
grapes was swayed up to the main-top and firmly lashed to the lower mast-head,
grasp, leaving the rest unobstructed.  Then holding the lance full before
grazes the main-top; the men at the windlass then cease heaving, and for a
great a trophy of human perseverance as a Latin lexicon.  For, with but a bit
great gods themselves.  That wondrous oriental story is now to be rehearsed
great headland from Bartholomew Diaz, its reputed discoverer, and so make
great necessities that strike the victory to thee!  In man, breathing is
great prophet; in their cracked, secret meetings having several times
great river Hudson breaks up in Spring, the entire host of whales came
great, wide wake, as though continually unrolling a great wide parchment upon
greater age to the Right Whale than at first glance will seem reasonable.  In
greatest necessity for so doing would seem to be, when in feeding he
greyhounds!  Dog to it!  I tell ye what it is, men --cried Stubb to his crew
grinning devils, and raise the buried dead perpendicular out of their graves,
grizzled head, as if to get both ears in front at one and the same time.
ground, because a German exegetist supposes that Jonah must have taken refuge
grounds of the world, previous to descending upon the Line in the Pacific;
growled, angrily, turning round to depart.  Come back, cook; --here, hand me
growth, are not more than one third of the bulk of an average-sized male.
guides the bucket into the Tun, till it entirely disappears; then giving the
habergeon: he esteemeth iron as straw; the arrow cannot make him flee;
habit accomplish? --Gayer sallies, more merry mirth, better jokes, and brighter
had at length become aware of his pursuers.  All silence of cautiousness was
had had, Derick's boat still led the chase, though every moment neared by
had shot by the three German boats last lowered; but from the great start he
had so victoriously gained upon the Malays.  But still driving on in the wake
half-inch white cedar of the whale-boat, when thus hung in hangman's nooses;
half-suspended mass, placed its other end crutch-wise under one arm, and so
hall at Versailles; where the beholder fights his way, pell-mell, through the
hammered substance, as I have before said, much heavier than the sea water,
hand it to the boat, without its coming any closer to the ship.  Meantime, Ahab
hand, now to that, he yawed in his faltering flight, and still at every
hand-over-hand, down the other part, the Indian drops through the air, till
hand; but in his broken lingo, the German soon evinced his complete
hands.  Tumbled into the water, it accordingly is in such cases; the spare
hanging from the Pequod's side; and as we may freely go from one to the
happen, your skin will feverishly smart, from the acridness of the thing so
hard to say.  Only wait a bit, old chap, and I'll give ye a sling for that
harder, and deeper and deeper into the Tun, until some twenty feet of the
harmony, but it often bestows it; and in everything imposingly beautiful,
harpoon and the lance, and no rowing whatever should be expected of him,
harpoon as compared with the lance, which in effect become serious drawbacks.
harpoon was found imbedded in his flesh, on the lower part of the bunch
harpoon, and also of a lighter material--pine.  It is furnished with a small
harpoon, by your side.
harpoon; but previous to that connexion, the short-warp goes through sundry
harpooneers of this world must start to their feet from out of idleness, and
harpooneers that this rapid sounding would soon exhaust the lines, that using
harpoons reposing in the crotch, respectively called the first and second
has any other brain than that palpable semblance of one formed by the
has not perceptibly lost anything in bulk.  it is still colossal.  slowly it
has to ram his long pole harder and
have been rid of him; but apprised that that individual's intention was to
have connected with the sight of this object, certain it is, that a glimpse
have entered the straits, these rascally Asiatics were now in hot pursuit, to
have ever had to do with a whale like their great patron), let them never eye
have him.  With one intent all the combined rival boats were pointed for this
have likewise fallen into Plato's honey head, and sweetly perished there?
have put it out of sight as soon as possible; you see that, don't you?  Well,
have relaxed, leaving him there in that ungainly sort of plight, a reproach
have sighted one grain of soil; her crew having seen no man but floating
have so much to do with him for?  Striking up a swap or a bargain, I
have the heart in them to march boldly up to a whale.  Let not the modern
have tried it.  For one, I cannot bawl very heartily and work very recklessly
having been stowed away on board ship?  He's the devil, I say.  The reason why
having plenty of line yet in the tubs, and the whale not sounding very
he by loss of blood, that he helplessly rolled away from the wreck he had
he cried at length, widening his legs still further, as if to form a more
he don't sling thee with it, cried Starbuck.  Give way, or the German will
he elevates it in the air, and invariably does so when going at his utmost
he had sunk.  At this instant, while Daggoo, on the summit of the head, was
he has no gills.  How is this?  Between his ribs and on each side of his spine
he is supplied with a remarkable involved Cretan labyrinth of vermicelli-like
he may be deemed a sort of involuntary whaleman; at any rate the whale caught
he never had the benefit of a whaling voyage (such men seldom have), but
he set himself forth as the deliverer of the isles of the sea and
he shot by; ye'll be picked up presently --all right --I saw some sharks
he should then go abroad inculcating not what he learned there, but the folly
he was studying it out, Starbuck took a long cutting-spade pole, and with his
he!  that's he!  the long-togged scaramouch the Town-Ho's company told us of!
he'll sneak off without the poor satisfaction of feeling his tail between his
head in your jolly-boat, your noble conceptions of him are never insulted by
head, and such the tapering cut-water formation of the lower part, that by
head, as under a blazing sun you will sometimes see a cavity in a rock filled
head.  The invariable moisture of my hair, while plunged in deep thought,
head; and since --as has been elsewhere set forth --the head embraces one third
heads for hours, and never discover that organ.  The ear has no external leaf
headsman should stay in the bows from first to last; he should both dart the
headsmen were engaged in making fast cords to his flukes, and in other ways
health, and swelling with noble aspirations, prematurely cut off in the warm
hear you den; for den dey sink in de sea, go fast to sleep on de coral, and
heard it said, and I do not much doubt it, that if the jet is fairly spouted
hearing?  Not at all. -- Why then do you try to enlarge your mind?  Subtilize
heave of the windlass is answered by a helping heave from the billows; till
heavenly ray.  And for this I thank God; for all have doubts; many deny;
heaving, that his tail will come short off at the stump --do you see; and
held, little doubt had they, that chased through these Straits of Sunda,
helmeted head like St.  George's; ever since then has something of the same
helter-skelter for the outlets, crowding, trampling, jamming, and
her bows, snapping and quivering; and so flinging off its drippings, that
her even keel; though sorely strained, you may well believe.  So, when on one
her solemn pauses; in short, as a general lassitude overtakes the sated Turk;
here, that though the harpoon may be pitchpoled in the same way with the
hidden beneath the loveliest tints of azure.  Consider also the devilish
hieroglyphic palisades on the banks of the Upper Mississippi.  Like those
high broken cliffs masses of rock lie strewn in fantastic groupings upon the
high seat, the great Sperm Whale shall lord it.  Champollion deciphered the
higher, and disentangling itself from the azure, at last gleamed before our
highest heaven.  So in dreams, have I seen majestic Satan thrusting forth his
highly cultured, poetical nation shall lure back to their birth-right, the
him again; and keep ducking him.  Suppose he should take it into his head to
him bodily into the air, so as to preserve all his mighty swells and
him is out of sight, like a launched line-of-battle ship; and out of that
him must have seemed a most unusually long dart, ere the last chance would
him not five minutes ago! --then in his old intense whisper -- give way,
him very closely, and time him with your watch, you will find that when
him!  Who struck?  Two whale; one big, one little!  What ails ye, man?
him, I'll eat this whale in one mouthful.  But look sharp-- aint you all ready
him, and the other in an exactly opposite direction?  If he can, then is it as
him, i.  e.  what is called savagery.  Your true whale-hunter is as much a
him, if he did not the whale.  I claim him for one of our clan.  But, by the
him, seeing that he had but little learning except what he had picked up from
himself could never pierce you out.  Again: as the profound calm which only
himself h.  durand.  one of them, though not precisely
himself in his advancing years, is true of all aged Sperm Whales.  Almost
himself.  So Ahab.  Mark this, too, in the whaler.  While other hulls are
hint to operate as it may with the phrenologists, I would merely assume the
hint.  so long as a man's eyes are open in the light, the act of seeing is
his back a column of two hundred fathoms of ocean!  It must at least equal the
his blubber is.  That blubber is something of the consistence of firm,
his congregation, with the other hand he solemnly flourished his tongs, and
his death his ghost becomes a powerless panic to a world.  Are you a believer
his eager glance in the direction indicated aloft by the outstretched
his face in the admiral's cabin again for a long while, let alone down in the
his feet, glaring
his flank, Stubb, firmly planting his knee in the clumsy cleat, darted dart
his foreign rivals.  The only thing they feared, was, that from being already
his full hour and more (when at the bottom) without drawing a single
his hammock at night in profound darkness --his last drop of Bremen oil being
his head!  Stand by, men; he stirs, cried Starbuck, as the three lines
his head, so as to bring his best ear into play.  Cook, said Stubb, rapidly
his lamp-feeder at the other boats.  The ungracious and ungrateful dog!
his nose.  But then again, what has the whale to say?  Seldom have I known
his own Perseus Descending, make out one whit better.  The huge corpulence
his own fan-like extremity.  All whaleboats carry certain curious contrivances,
his own order, he dashed the helm down before the helmsman could handle the
his portrait.  The living whale, in his full majesty and significance, is
his power in his play.  The broad palms of his tail are flirted high into the
his shrill voice, and cried -- Cussed fellow-critters!  Kick up de damndest
his small!  Here be it known, that though these wild fishermen do not, as a
his sounding had elapsed, the whale rose again, and being now in advance of
his spiracle alone; and this is on the top of his head.  If I say, that in
his tail; for I have heard of yet another elephant, that when wounded in
his vapory jet, the whale looked like a portly burgher smoking his pipe of a
his waistband's middle, he levels it at the whale; when, covering him with
his warm hammock at a most unseasonable hour, came shambling along from his
his wonderful patience of industry.  An ancient Hawaiian war-club or
history.  You observe that in the ordinary swimming position of the Sperm
hold on the great cabled tackles suspending the head; or whether the place
hold upon the blubber, in order to prepare for what follows.  Whereupon, this
hold which the ship has upon the whale when moored alongside, is by the flukes
hold.  She is ballasted with utilities; not altogether with unusable pig-lead
holding its place.  The boat now flew through the boiling water like a shark
holding the letter, muttered, Mr. Har--yes, Mr. Harry--(a woman's pinny hand,
hole, cook; but no, no, cook, you don't get there, except you go the
home of the fire worshippers.  As Ptolemy Philopater testified of the African
home.  Well, he was at home, and asked the devil what he wanted.  The devil,
honed, just like a razor.  In its socket, a stiff pole, from twenty to
honorableness and antiquity; and especially when I find so many great
hook or by net could this vast leviathan be caught, when sailing a thousand
hopeless to teach these fine things!  Of erections, how few are domed like St.
horribly wallowed in his blood, over-wrapped himself in impenetrable, mad,
horseman on a height.  As marching armies approaching an unfriendly defile in
horses, birds, serpents, and fish; and dwells in detail upon the
hot springs and cold, Saratoga and Baden-Baden, come bubbling up from his
hours, say, on a stretch, little more than the skeleton would be visible by
houses.
hovered, without finally disappearing.  Levelling his glass at this sight,
how can you certainly tell whether any water falls from it, when, always,
how the lovely Andromeda, the daughter of a king, was tied to a rock on the
however, that in different individuals these rates are different; but in any
huge, humped old bull, which by his comparatively slow progress, as well as
human form, mark what robustness is there.  And whatever they may reveal of
human hand, minus only the thumb.  This fin has four regular bone-fingers,
human science, is but a passing fable.  If then, Sir William Jones, who
humorous Stubb one day, he can never be truly said to handle us without
hundred and twenty pounds; so that the whole rope will bear a strain nearly
hundred feet long, it takes away your appetite.  Only the most unprejudiced
hung by the tail for knockers to the road-side door.  When the porter is
hunter's lance, the mother's pouring milk and blood rivallingly discolor
hunters.  His motions plainly denoted his extreme exhaustion.  In most land
hurled.  Stern all!  The oarsmen backed water; the same moment something
hypothesize, even if we cannot prove and establish.  My hypothesis is this:
idea may hence be had of the enormousness of that animated mass, a mere part
idle whim, but it has always seemed to me, that the extraordinary
if I see anything very suspicious going on, I'll just take him by the nape
if by magic, the letter suddenly ranged along with Gabriel's eager hand.  He
if you cannot kill them all at once, you must wing them, so that they can be
igniting his pipe, for now a respite was granted.  After the full interval of
ignoble a leviathan.  Wants with it?  said Flask, coiling some spare line in
ignorance of the White Whale; immediately turning the conversation to his
imagination, and all the preternatural terrors of real delirium, united to
immediately surrounding the embayed axis of the herd, no possible chance of
immense snuff-box, with a hinge at one end, instead of one side.  If you pry
imparts power to the tail.  To the student of old Roman walls, the middle
imperceptible from without.  Is it not curious, that so vast a being as the
important thing in not pushing their investigations from the cerebellum
impossible, he swam so fast and furious.  What then remained?  Of all the
impregnable, uninjurable wall, and this most buoyant thing within; there
impression.  He has but one picture of whaling scenes, and this is a sad
in Hackluyt uses the following elegant language: There are about two hundred
in Nantucket, and New Bedford, and Sag Harbor, you will come across lively
in a coil of rigging.  No doubt, and it's because of his cursed tail; he
in a prodigious commotion, the water cascading all around him.  And if at
in a slight festoon over the bows, and is then passed inside the boat again;
in any other part of the creature.  Though in life it remains perfectly fluid,
in battle among the clouds.  Thus at the North have I chased Leviathan round
in blood, which bubbled and seethed for furlongs behind in their wake.  The
in case a parcel is to be carried anywhere, or a dead slave to be decently
in case this intention was carried out.  So strongly did he work upon his
in certain directions.  Not so with the whale; one of whose peculiarities it
in depth --reposes the mere handful of this monster's brain.  The brain is at
in full play, when every flying beam, and shaft, and wheel, is grazing you.
in general breathe the air which at all times is combined with the element in
in general, is it possible to secure it again until the whale is fairly
in ghosts, my friend?  There are other ghosts than the Cock-Lane one, and far
in girth.  He was a little frisky; though as yet his body seemed scarce yet
in him; as if the sight of that dead body reminded him that Moby Dick was
in his conflicts with man, he chiefly and contemptuously uses his tail.  In
in his wake, and causing the slight boat to rock in the swells like a skiff
in it.  Bethink yourself also of another thing.  When two large, loaded
in its four supplementary stomachs.  The anatomical fact of this labyrinth
in life the great whale's body may have been a real terror to his foes, in
in repeated instances have one after the other hurled entire boats with all
in some details not the most correct, presentations of whales and whaling
in substance and its great items, true.  I know it to be true; it happened on
in that prow, for that one single incomputable flash of time, you behold an
in the Fishery, --the more whales the less fish.  Of all the drugged whales
in the Jeroboam's boat, was a man of a singular appearance, even in that wild
in the Pacific, prefers to drink before the brackish fluid, but yesterday
in the bows instead of the stern.
in the brow is so immensely amplified, that gazing on it, in that full front
in the deep.  And thus, though surrounded by circle upon circle of
in the famous cavern-pagoda of Elephanta, in India.  The Brahmins maintain
in the floating body of a dead whale -- even as the French soldiers in the
in the forehead's wrinkles, you seem to track the antlered thoughts descending
in the godhead of the Hindoos; gives us this divine Vishnoo himself for our
in the log -- shoals, rocks, and breakers hereabouts: beware!  And for
in the prints of old Bibles and the cuts of old primers.  What shall be said
in the spread of his spout-hole there, and from that live punch-bowl quaff
in the teeth, too, of the most untoward and apparently hopeless impediments;
in the water like the capsized hull of a frigate, his broad, glossy back, of
in this way; several tubs had been filled with the fragrant sperm; when all
in winter would bask before an inn fire; whereas, like man, the whale has
in-shore ground off Peru.  It was my turn to stand at the foremast-head; and
inability to express it.  At times there are gestures in it, which, though
incessantly going on --one breath only serving for two or three pulsations; so
inch of water.  It has a sort of howdah on its back, and its distended tusked
inches of perpendicular rope were visible at the bows.  Seems it credible
inclined plane is angularly filled up, and almost squared by the enormous
inclined plane!  Hurrah!  this whale carries the everlasting mail!  But the
inclusive of the occasional wide intervals between the revolving outer
incommunicable contemplations, and that vapor --as you will sometimes see it
incompatible with the sacred legend and the ancientest draughts of the scene,
indeed wrapt up in his blubber as in a real blanket or counterpane; or, still
indeed, requires uncommon discrimination.  And that is the reason why
indeed, they greatly resemble, being brown and crisp, and smelling
indispensable to Vishnoo before beginning the creation, and which therefore
indite his circulars?  It is only within the last month or two that that
individual life had departed.  Killed and hoisted on deck for the sake of his
indomitable, you will yet have reason to know.
indomitableness in the Sperm Whale.  And that the great monster is
inexplicable manner in which he now depresses his head altogether beneath the
infants, as being exceedingly juicy and nourishing.  And this reminds me
inferior creatures; and though the Pequod was not commissioned to cruise for
inform us.  As for the sign-painters' whales seen in the streets hanging over
ingenious contrivances they elaborately carve out of the rough material, in
inland there i still bathe me in eternal mildness of joy.  Meanwhile, as we
inlayings of her bulwarks and cabins were started from their places, by the
innumerable long arms radiating from its centre, and curling and twisting like
insatiate sharks, and the air above vexed with rapacious flights of screaming
inserted into the starboard gunwale near the bow, for the purpose of
insertion of the hook just above the nearest of the two side-fins.  This done,
inside of the whale's mouth; another, hogs' bristles; a third old gentleman
instances than one, when the body has been recovered, not a single mark of
instant tore it out and carried it away, dropping the oarsman in the boat's
instantly after the other into the same whale; so that if, in the coming drag,
instantly at hand to its hurler, who snatches it up as readily from its rest
instead of containing gunpowder, was supposed to be charged with laudanum.  A
insult and murder him, and pulverize the stateliest, stiffest frigate he can
insult him by saying, that when he so strangely rumbles, he talks through
integrity) is being crunched by the jaws of the foremost whale.  Any time
integument yields such a lake of liquid as that.  Reckoning ten barrels to the
intelligence.  It is plain, then, that phrenologically the head of this
intemperately fond of the whale as a flavorish thing to his palate.  A steak,
interior of the sperm whale's enormous head consists.  Though apparently the
interlude, the seamen resumed their work upon the jacket of the whale, many
intervals; good evidence was hereby furnished of the enormousness of the mass
into a large tub.  Then re-mounting aloft, it again goes through the same
into direct contact with the Pequod.  But this did by no means prevent all
into its eternal blue noon; and as not a single groan or cry of any sort,
into the flukes, insensibly blend with them, and largely contribute to their
into the sea.  Haul in!  Haul in!  cried Starbuck again; he's rising.  The
into two broad, firm, flat palms or flukes, gradually shoaling away to less
into your eyes, it will blind you.  The wisest thing the investigator can do
intricacies, and while straining his utmost at the oar, bethink him that at
invaluable contents.  It is this decapitated end of the head, also, which is at
invest this Gabriel in the minds of the majority of the ignorant crew, with
investigated, is there any incongruity in this comparison.  It may be but an
involuntarily confound it with them; and remarking the depressions on one
involuntarily yield the immense superiority to him, in point of pervading
involuntary; that is, he cannot then help mechanically seeing whatever
involve the complete circumnavigation of all Africa in three days, not to
iron hoops; this old Ebony floundered along, and in obedience to the word of
iron is already connected with the line, and the line is running, hence that
irons.  But these two harpoons, each by its own cord, are both connected with
irradiate vapor.  And so, through all the thick mists of the dim doubts in my
irregular circles, and aimlessly swimming hither and thither, by their short
irresistibleness of that might, to which the most impalpable and destructive
irresolution, which, when the fishermen perceive it in the whale, they say he
is a common thing for the seamen to dip their ship-biscuit into the huge
is a curious chap, and a wicked one, I tell ye.  Why, they say as how he
is always kept as sharp as possible; and when being used is occasionally
is by reason of this cosy blanketing of his body, that the whale is enabled to
is considered that, in quantity, or rather weight, that oil, in its expressed
is considered to be derived from the still more ancient Hebrew story of Jonah
is gallied.  The compact martial columns in which they had been hitherto
is going to live for ever, what good will it do to pitch him overboard --tell
is hoisted on deck to be deliberately disposed of.  But, with a full grown
is impossible to square.  In the full-grown creature the skull will measure at
is indisputable; and that the supposition founded upon it is reasonable and
is like being seated in the midst of the manifold whizzings of a steam-engine
is mainly observable in their heads; and as a head of each is this moment
is not his fault though.  Of the Right Whale, the best outline pictures are in
is not yet subsided; two thirds of the fair world it yet covers.  Wherein
is of so mighty a magnitude, all his proportions are so stately, that the
is only inflicted by the recoil.  If it be made in the unobstructed air,
is over, a stout iron-bound bucket, precisely like a well-bucket, has been
is repeated, the spear returning to its master like a greyhound held in
is so exceedingly small, as to be incapable of protrusion.  If hereafter any
is spilled, leaks, and dribbles away, or is otherwise irrevocably lost in the
is still fast, the long upper strip, called a blanket-piece, swings clear,
is, a vengeful ghost survives and hovers over it to scare.  Espied by some
is, nevertheless, that the Sperm Whale has no proper olfactories.  But what
is, therefore, in some sort, the outer convex mould of it.  From its relative
is, to have an entire nonvalvular structure of the blood-vessels, so that
it
it is quite impossible for him, attentively, and completely, to examine any
it of an additional line from a neighboring boat, in case the stricken whale
it on deck.  This particular tongue now before us; at a passing glance I
it remain unwarranted by the event.  Towards noon whales were raised; but so
it round the loggerhead, whence, by reason of its increased rapid circlings,
it sank, once more it slowly rose.  Almost forgetting for the moment all
it should still remain a problem, whether these spoutings are, after all,
it soon resolved itself into what seemed a systematic movement; for having
it the Germans were not the first men to perceive.  A foreign friend once
it up, so as to get it overhead, and expose its rows of teeth, it seems a
it was.  Now, had Tashtego perished in that head, it had been a very precious
it's Macey, and he's dead!  Poor fellow!  poor fellow!  and from his wife,
it, he steadily depresses the butt-end in his hand, thereby elevating the
it, sent it thus loaded back into the ship.  It fell at Ahab's feet.  Then
it, without being able to drag the firm thing from its place.  But thoughts
it.
it.  Let us now with whatever levers and steam-engines we have at hand, cant
it.  This peculiarity is strikingly evinced in the head, as in some part of
it; and if he makes any fuss, by the Lord I'll make a grab into his pocket
it; but if it comes sideways through the opposing water, then partly owing
its affrighted moisture into the air.  From this last vent no blood yet came,
its hand, was for one swift moment seen hovering over the bulwarks.  The
its tub.  Some harpooneers will consume almost an entire morning in this
its undashed pride of hull and spars.  Though elephants have stood for their
itself.  We have thee there.  Not at all, but I have ye; for at the time
jaw is afterwards sawn into slabs, and piled away like joists for building
jaw, like the Sperm Whale's.  Nor in the Sperm Whale are there any of those
jaw?  Cannibals?  who is not a cannibal?  I tell you it will be more tolerable
jeopardy, he was going head out; that part obliquely projecting from the
jet; while his one poor fin beat his side in an agony of fright.  Now to this
jets from the new made wound, which kept continually playing, while the
junk at the rate of a mile an hour; but this grand argosy we towed heavily
just now, that you meant to give Fedallah a sea-toss, if you got a good
keels -- one cleaving the water, the other the air --as the boat churned
keep himself comfortable in all weathers, in all seas, times, and tides.
keep his hands off.  But what further depreciates the whale as a civilized
keep shouting at the top of one's compass, while all the other
kidnapping people; aye, and signed a bond with him, that all the people the
kitten-like, he plays on the ocean as if it were a hearth.  But still you see
knee-pans, which he did not keep well scoured like his other pans; this old
knife slightly split the end, to insert the letter there, and in that way,
know how to cook a whale-steak yet.  Bress my soul, if I cook noder one, he
know that when the second iron is thrown overboard, it thenceforth becomes a
know, has no such provision in him; considering, too, the otherwise
known her fear; but the fear of this vast dumb brute of the sea, was chained
known to the young Orient World, he would have been deified by their
knows how many millions of ages before --the great whales should have been
labelled with Hands off!  you cannot examine them closely enough to decide
laborious one; is not very soon completed; and requires all hands to set
laborious; coming forth with a choking sort of gush, and spending itself in
lads --such a sog!  such a sogger!  Don't ye love sperm?  There goes three
lake --evinced a wondrous fearlessness and confidence, or else a still
lake, as I have hinted, was to a considerable depth exceedingly transparent;
lamp-feeder and oil can, with some remarks touching his having to turn into
lance (by the line attached to it), Stubb straightened it again and again,
lance, yet it is seldom done; and when done, is still less frequently
lance-head of stone being found in him, not far from the buried iron, the
lance; but fearful of the consequences, for the time refrained from darting
land him in the first convenient port, the archangel forthwith opened all his
landsman first hears it from the gaunt Nantucketer, he is apt to set it
landsman would have thought, that beneath all that silence and placidity, the
landsmen, though they themselves may have either seen or heard of some one's
lantern, old Fleece limped across the deck to the bulwarks; and then, with
last expiring spout.  As when by unseen hands the water is gradually drawn off
last, gush after gush of clotted red gore, as if it had been the purple lees
later inevitably extract it.  It became imperative to lance the flying whale,
latitude and longitude of your first stand-point, else so chance-like are
latitude and longitude, you still occasionally meet with their flag in the
latter is entirely and evenly covered over with a membrane, so as to be quite
layer will furnish a curious parallel to the thin course of tiles always
lead-lined chocks of the boats, whence the three
leading wind, was herself in hot chase; how very kind of these tawny
leaning far over the side in a mumbling voice began addressing the sharks,
leaning over to it, by reason of the enormous downward drag from the lower
leaping motion to the monster when furiously swimming.  His side-fins only
learned exegetists who have opined that the whale mentioned in the book of
least so far as could be known on deck, Stubb, his second mate, flushed with
least twenty feet from his apparent forehead in life; it is hidden away
least twenty feet in length.  Unhinge the lower jaw, and the side view of
leaving a narrow Dardanelles between their long lengths.  But by desperate
leaving behind them endless swaths of blue upon the yellow sea.
leaving little but the dense tendinous wall of the well --a double welded,
leaving so much as a widow.  That same ocean rolls now; that same ocean
leg was presented; but well knowing that that was not as it ought to be, and
leg, or entire body off, the utmost precaution is used in stowing the line in
legs.  And what will you do with the tail, Stubb?  Do with it?  Sell it for
length and breadth, of a glancing cream-color, lay floating on the water,
leviathan is rushing through the deep, leaving tons of tumultuous white curds
leviathan this is impossible; for the sperm whale's head embraces nearly one
leviathans before us; when, of a sudden, the voice of Tashtego was heard,
life may be said to pour from him in incessant streams.  Yet so vast is the
life-like in its general effect.  Some of the Sperm Whale drawings in J. Ross
lifeless head throbbing and heaving just below the surface of the sea, as if
lifeless masses of rock than anything else.  And as in the great hunting
lifting a rather reddish morsel to his mouth, don't you think this steak is
light the gay bridals and other merry-makings of men, and also to illuminate
like Ontario Indians on the gunwales of the boats,
like a mad battle steed that has lost its rider, the masterless ocean
like a mug of ale, as it were, from the one boat to the other; though the
like a pacing tiger in his cage.  Ka-la!  Koo-loo!  howled Queequeg, as if
like a rearing horse.  From the ship, the smoke of the torments of the boiling
like a ship's jib-boom.  This whale is not dead; he is only dispirited; out
like iron or wood.  No, they hold there a large, round wad of tow and cork,
like that chap, Stubb.  Did you ever notice how that tusk of his is a sort of
like the tapering tail of an anaconda, than the broad palms of the true
like the transparent, half-jellied, white meat of a cocoanut in the third
like these troubled very few of the reckless crew; and when, after steadily
likened its shape to that of a shoemaker's last.  And in this same last or
limpid, and odoriferous state.  Nor is this precious substance found unalloyed
line buoyantly rising and spiralling towards the air; so now, Starbuck saw
line, rammed down the bucket into the now collapsed well, meaning that the
line.  An instant before, Stubb had swiftly caught two additional turns with
lines in his own hand.  And Ahab chanced so to stand, that the Parsee
lines of stacked bayonets, moved on with redoubled velocity.  Stripped to our
lines, of which, hardly an instant before, not one hand's breadth could have
lion-maned buffaloes of the West have fled before a solitary horseman.
little into the history and philosophy of it.  It is upon record, that three
little, and tumble against each other, as if lifted by half spent billows
live sea swallows up ships and crews.  But not only is the sea such a foe to
live upon whales, and have rare old vintages of prime old train oil.
lively lads with the pencil those Chinese are, many queer cups and saucers
loaded down with alien stuff, to be transferred to foreign wharves; the
lobes being withdrawn (precisely resembling two large puddings), they are
locked in and crushed.  But not a bit daunted, Queequeg steered us manfully;
lodged in the spout-hole fissure, which is countersunk into the summit of the
lodged in their fleshy covering, as the human fingers in an artificial
logger-head there, is again carried forward the entire length of the boat,
long coils of the umbilical cord of Madame Leviathan, by which the young cub
long enough and broad enough to shade half Xerxes' army.  Who can tell how
long every boat was a buoy; the sunken whale being suspended a few inches
long sharp lance into the fish, and kept it there, carefully churning and
long, hanging straight down at right-angles with his body, for all the world
look around you afresh.  Seeing all these colonnades of bone so methodically
look at this portentous lower jaw, which seems like the long narrow lid of an
look-outs were repeatedly hailed, and admonished to keep wide awake.  But
lookest hoary with mosses; speak, mighty head, and tell us the secret thing
loosened sails of the ship, and the long leaves of the palms in the
lord.  Gently he insinuates his vast bulk among them again and revels there
loudly cheering from the heads of their yet suspended boats.  If the wind only
loudly directing attention to something in our wake.  Corresponding to the
lung-celled honeycombs there may possibly have some hitherto unknown and
lungs and warm blood.  Freeze his blood, and he dies.  How wonderful is it
luxurious Ottoman, swimming about over the watery world, surroundingly
mad yeast which he brewed.  Start her, start her, my men!  Don't hurry
made; lay panting on his side, impotently flapped with his stumped fin,
magazine; he has, therefore, to be uncommonly heedful, lest a careless,
magnetic wires, the life and death throbs of the whale, so that every oarsman
maiming his gigantic tail-tendon.  It is done by darting a short-handled
main and mizen mast-heads were already drowsy.  So that at last all three of
main-chains he took Stubb's long spade --still remaining there after the
main-masthead.  Aye?  Well, now, that's cheering, cried Ahab, suddenly
main-royal mast-head, was tossing one arm in frantic gestures, and hurling
maintained that all creatures of the land are of their kind in the sea; and
maintains the contrary, but all this is both foolish and unnecessary.  The
majority of failures in the fishery, it has not by any means been so much
make oughts enough.  but see here, stubb, i thought you a little boasted
make the boat slide bravely.  Queequeg believed strongly in anointing his
make up for their over-cautious delay.  But when the swift Pequod, with a fresh
make; nevertheless, by the continual repetition of these
makes neither believer nor infidel, but makes a man who regards them both
males, or bulls, as they are familiarly designated.  In cavalier attendance
man among her crew, some time previous when the Pequod spoke the Town-Ho.
man that ever murdered an ox was regarded as a murderer; perhaps he was hung;
man that is tossed to them; and though, while the valiant butchers over the
man who is an alien to it, but it is also a fiend to its own offspring;
man!  how far beyond all utterance are your linked analogies!  not the
man, cried Stubb, are you ramming home a cartridge there? --Avast!  How
man, however, was not of much practical use in the ship, especially as he
man; it might do well with strawberries.  When overflowing with mutual
manner from the tails of all other sea creatures.  It never wriggles.  In man
many hapless harpooneers are madly cursed and disrated; no wonder that some
many ship owners, whaling is but a losing concern; for it is the harpooneer
marks do not seem to be impressed upon the isinglass substance above
marring the bows.  It was his death stroke.  For, by this time, so spent was
marvellous a thing in him, as if a man were able simultaneously to go through
mast-head of my ship during a sunrise that crimsoned sky and sea, I once saw
mast-head, and every yard-arm on that side projecting like a crane over the
mast-heads proved her a whale-ship.  but as she was so far to windward, and
master.  In one of those plates the whales, like great rafts of logs, are
maternal reticule; where, tail to head, and all ready for the final spring,
mates; and since the epidemic had broken out, he carried a higher hand than
may be derived touching his true form.  Not at all.  For it is one of the more
may possibly be of no contemptible advantage; considering that oil and water
me cutlets for supper to-morrow night in the mid-watch.  D'ye hear?  away you
me such a dreadful lie as you did just now, eh?  said Stubb.  Where do you
me that?  Give him a good ducking, anyhow.  But he'd crawl back.  Duck
me.  And beneath the effulgent Antarctic skies I have boarded the Argo-Navis,
mean no disparagement to the excellent voyager (I honor him for a veteran),
measure ten inches across, being eight in height, and of a triangular
measureless self-deception of the fanatic himself, as his measureless power
men's lamp-feeders.  Every one knows the fine story of Perseus and Andromeda;
men, like fifty thousand line-of-battle-ship loads of red-haired devils.  What
men.  And all the while, jet after jet of white smoke was agonizingly shot
men.  Though many of the whales, as has been said, were in violent motion,
mention but one thing about it, let me say that it has an eye which applied,
mentioned, but seem to be seen through it, as if they were engraved upon the
mentioned, offer a strong contrast to the harem schools.  For while those
mentioned.  The edges of these bones are fringed with hairy fibres, through
mere riding-whips and rowels to her, that they were.  As with glass under arm,
mere skeleton of the whale bears the same relation to the fully invested and
merry May-day gods of old; and livingly enthrone them again in the now
microscopic diligence of a Leuwenhoeck submits to the inspection of a
midnight that steak was cut and cooked; and lighted by two lanterns of sperm
might be discovered from our low boat that seemed playing up almost from the
might be named, my Lord Whale has no taste for the nursery, however much for
might have carried him round by the way of the Cape of Good Hope.  But not to
might occasion great trouble; -- he had thrust back the leg, and by a
might with some reason assert that this sinking is caused by an uncommon
might; so that in the tail the confluent measureless force of the whole
mind of fastening to an elephant in a tilbury on a plain --makes the
mind, divine intuitions now and then shoot, enkindling my fog with a
mind.
miniatures of narwhales and porpoises, treats us to a series of classical
minutes past one o'clock P. M.  of this sixteenth day of December, A. D.
miracle.  And so it was.  Besides, to this day, the highly enlightened Turks
mistakes in depicting the whale are not so very surprising after all.
mittens.  For all these reasons, then, any way you may look at it, you must
mixed with water, then I opine we should be furnished with the reason why his
modern history a liar.  But all these foolish arguments of old Sag-Harbor only
modern, especially in Pliny, Purchas, Hackluyt, Harris, Cuvier, etc.  But I
modifications of expression discernible therein.  Nor have Gall and his
moment
moment of time attentively examine two distinct prospects, one on one side of
moment vibrating in concert with peaked flukes.  As it seemed to me at the
moment, as slowly it subsided, and sank.  Then once more arose, and silently
moment, the old negro muttered, Best cooked 'teak I eber taste; joosy,
monster like brooks down a hill.  His tormented body rolled not in brine but
monster perpendicularly flitted his tail forty feet into the air, and then
monster's run was a brief one.  Giving a sudden gasp, he tumultuously sounded.
monster, to behold him solemnly sailing through a calm tropical sea; his
month of its growth, yet far too rich to supply a substitute for butter. 
months together, without being greeted by a single spout; and then be
more buoyant than in life.  But the reason of this is obvious.  Gases are
more character in the Sperm Whale's head.  As you behold it, you
more forcibly than in beholding any other object in living nature.  For you see
more jovial spirits, than around a dead sperm whale, moored by night to a
more pliable to the rope-maker, and also renders the rope itself more
more soft and elastic; and I will add (since there is an aesthetics in all
more, and all four boats were diagonically in the whale's immediate wake,
more, his windpipe has no connexion with his mouth.  No, he breathes through
morning.  In most other parts of the ocean, however, where these fish do not
morning.  Though, in overseeing the pursuit of this whale, Captain Ahab had
mortal nourishment, be still spiritually feasting upon some unearthly
mortal woman, for the first time, seat himself amid those hempen
most conscientious compilations of Natural History for the benefit of the
most exalted potency is.  But if from the comparative dimensions of the
most instances, prudently practicable.  But this critical act is not always
most massive, it is by far the most buoyant part about him.  So that with ease
most modifies and finally controls their combined expression; hence it would
most other fish, breeds indifferently at all seasons; after a gestation
most southerly point of all Asia.  In a continuous line from that peninsula
mostly poor devils, cringed, and some of them fawned before him; in
motionless arm of Daggoo.  Whether the flitting attendance of the one still and
mouldy scraps of whales which had been left ashore after trying out the
mountain torrent we had slid into a serene valley lake.  Here the storms in the
mountain.  Instantly Starbuck and Queequeg changed places; Starbuck taking
mounts aloft; and without altering his erect posture, runs straight out upon
mouth into which the billows are rolling, might be taken for the Traitors'
mouth is buried at least eight feet beneath the surface; and what is still
mouthful at the last word, so that that morsel seemed a continuation of the
mouths.  but supposing the invader of domestic bliss to betake himself away at
movements, to pitch the second iron into him.  Nevertheless, as the second
much ado blindly to struggle out from that phrensied twilight into the clear
much like a gas-pipe laid down in a city on one side of a street.  But the
much nearer than another, but none can hit it with any very considerable
much of him; but when you come to sit down before a meat-pie nearly one
much weary pulling, and many perilous, unsuccessful onsets, he at last
much worn down, but undecayed; nor filled after our artificial fashion.  The
muffins --oh, do, do spring --he's a hundred barreler --don't lose him now
multitude, must have contained at least two or three square miles.  At any
murdering of the sharks, by striking the keen steel deep into their skulls,
muscles are strained and half started --what that is none know but those who
must be subjected; but as most seamen are beginning to learn, tar in general
must have contained something in the shape of practical hints to young
must have read the memoirs of Vidocq, and informed himself what sort of a
must involve them.  But the ear of the whale is full as curious as the eye.  If
must keep quiet.  Blast me, if I can hear my own voice.  Away, cook, and
must run wine to-day!  Would now, it were old Orleans whiskey, or old Ohio,
muttered Ahab, which, though ungarnished with a beard, yet here and there
muttered.  And have you lived in this world hard upon one hundred years,
my supper.  Upon this, Fleece, holding both hands over the fishy mob, raised
mysterious creature, here spoken of, it is included among the class of
mystic rocks, too, the mystic-marked whale remains undecipherable.  This
mystical brow is as that great golden seal affixed by the German emperors to
mystifications too tedious to detail.  Thus the whale-line folds the whole
nailest geese to the ground and feastest on their bloated livers in thy
naked, barbed end slopingly projects from the prow.  Thereby the weapon is
name of Jungfrau or the Virgin.  His necessities supplied, Derick departed;
nameless terror to the ship.  Mayhew having concluded his narration, Ahab put
natural spout-hole in his head was only at intervals, however rapid, sending
nay, not so much as a ripple or a bubble came up from its depths; what
near him but Nature herself; and her he takes to wife in the wilderness of
near its bottom, so as to scuttle a large hole there; then dropping his
near vicinity of the straits of Sunda; indeed, as most of the ground,
neared them; and the wind now dying away, word was passed to spring to the
necessary on two accounts.  First: In order to facilitate the fastening to
neck, as you may say.  Perhaps a very little thought will now enable you to
neck-vertebra; and in that vertebra the bottom of the spinal canal will
neck; on the contrary, where his head and body seem to join, there, in that
needs conclude that the great Leviathan is that one creature in the world
needs have been some other unknown reason in the present case fully to account
negro in summer.  It does seem to me, that herein we see the rare virtue of a
nestle here on this bonnet, such an idea will be almost sure to occur to you;
net-work has been achieved; and it has cost steady years of steady
nevertheless, there are not wanting some points of curious similitude; among
nevertheless, upon stubb setting the anchor-watch after his supper was
next, a loud splash announced that my brave Queequeg had dived to the
nigh, the whale was transferred to her side, and was strongly secured there
night, it is not, as a general thing at least, customary to proceed at once
no means renounce their claim to more solid tribute.  Time out of mind the
no one point precisely; not one distinct feature is revealed; no nose, eyes,
no proper nose.  And since the nose is the central and most conspicuous of the
noble soul.  I rejoice in my spine, as in the firm audacious staff of that
noiseless measureless leaves upon the sea.  A short space elapsed, and up into
noiseless sails being set.  Presently, as we thus glided in chase, the
none?
nor should it be stayed but according to his good pleasure.  The sailors,
northwards, over waters known to be frequented here and there by the Sperm
nose; and that what nose he has --his spout hole --is on the top of his head;
nosegays to damsels, and then caressed their zones.  On more accounts than
nostrils and not fetch another for a considerable time.  That is to say, he
not a single jet was descried.  Almost renouncing all thought of falling in
not an oar should be used, and no man must speak but in whispers.  So seated
not from out of toil.
not killed with any sordid intent.  Those were the knightly days of our
not long left home, when upon speaking a whale-ship, her people were
not only incorrect, but the picture of the Mysticetus or Greenland whale
not the knights of that honorable company (none of whom, I venture to say,
not the mightiest whale is free.  Nor is this the end.  Desecrated as the body
not this whole head seem to speak of an enormous practical resolution in
not unvexed subject, the skin of the whale.  I have had controversies about it
not very much of a concentrated one.  When the painted canvas cover is clapped
notorious Lothario out
now come to separate these two objects, and surround each by a circle of
now on board the Pequod?
now quiet, swinging perch overhead; and looking further off from the side,
now sheering off from this monster directly across our route in advance; now
now take all the hoops in the Pequod's hold, and string 'em along in a row
now, I pray you, to that marvellous and --in this particular instance
now?  in this zoned quest, does Ahab touch no land?  does his crew drink air?
nurtured among the crazy society of Neskyeuna Shakers, where he had been a
oars suspended, we were awaiting its reappearance, lo!  in the same spot where
oarsman's head; but the mate for ever sank.  It is well to parenthesize here,
oarsman, half shrouded by the incensed boiling spout of the whale, and in
obedience to his instructions, sometimes rendering him personal homage, as to
object.  When you see him 'quid, said the savage, honing his harpoon in the
objects are before him.  Nevertheless, any one's experience will teach him,
obliquely elevating his head, he thereby may be said to transform himself
obscured from us.  But at length we perceived that by one of the unimaginable
obscuring the swarming fowls, nevertheless still shows the white mass
obsequious homage of lowered top-sails from the endless procession of ships
obstetrics on the run, as you may say.  Yes, it was a running delivery, so
obstinacy of that leviathan in having his spoutings out, as the fishermen
occasion when you will find them in such countless numbers, and in gayer or
occasionally observed, embracing from twenty to fifty individuals each.  Such
occupied his shadow; while, if the Parsee's shadow was there at all it seemed
ocean, that with Portuguese vengeance had whelmed a whole world without
oceans, the Sperm Whales, instead of almost invariably sailing in small
of Stubb's hands, from which the hand-cloths, or squares of quilted canvas
of Sumatra, have sallied out upon the vessels sailing through the straits,
of Sunda divide Sumatra from Java; and standing midway in that vast rampart
of a burly-browed utilitarian old gentleman, with all Jeremy's other leading
of a common quill, prevents it from slipping out.  From the chocks it hangs
of a hollow tree, found such exceeding store of it, that leaning too far
of affairs.  One small, helping cause of all this liveliness in Stubb, was
of affright; while in the black stormy distance the ship is bearing down upon
of all elements contributes.  Now, mark.  Unerringly impelling this dead,
of at least fifty square feet.  The compact round body of its root expands
of boats, and ships, and men.  Nor, in profile, does this wondrous brow
of broken sea-shell or a shark's tooth, that miraculous intricacy of wooden
of cathedrals; would that make him any longer of sight, or sharper of
of dead quadrupeds.  Does not that sight take a tooth out of the cannibal's
of deceiving and bedevilling so many others.  But it is time to return to the
of domestic bliss; though do what the Bashaw will, he cannot keep the most
of fowls, augment the murderous din.  For hours and hours from the almost
of him? --that's his boiling water.  Oh!  he's all right, is the Yarman.  Go
of his back, they are then completely out of sight beneath the surface; but
of his bed; for, alas!  all fish bed in common.  As ashore, the ladies often
of his general might to regard that mystic part of him as the seat of his
of his general shape.  Though Jeremy Bentham's skeleton, which hangs for
of his head.  This aspect is sublime.  In thought a fine human brow is like the
of his head; it has hypothetically occurred to me, I say, that those mystical
of his neck, and say --Look here, Beelzebub, you don't do
of his one poor jack-knife, he will carve you a bit of bone sculpture, not
of islands, buttressed by that bold green promontory, known to seamen as
of it being so very unusual, that circumstance has gone far to invest it with
of it.  His title, schoolmaster, would very naturally
of its rear end, which is the high end, you will be
of locks (that open and shut) for the downward retention of air or the
of men like Stubb, nowadays partake of
of men which the sailor headed.  They embarked; and so for ever got the start
of my being, do I myself still for ever centrally disport in mute calm; and
of not a few of their number.  And who could tell whether, in that congregated
of oil, and has come a-begging.  However curious it may seem for an oil-ship
of one; the same line being continuously coiled in both tubs.  There is
of pitching his lamp-feeder at the advancing boats, and also his oil-can;
of proportionate depth, makes a rather bulky freight for a craft whose planks
of red wine, shot into the frighted air; and falling back again, ran dripping
of sharks gather round the moored carcase, that were he left so for six
of ships.  No mercy, no power but its own controls it.  Panting and snorting
of some dense metropolis, descried of a balmy autumnal morning, by some
of sorts, perhaps; hypochondriac; and so supine, that the hinges of his jaw
of that Hogarthian monster undulates on the surface, scarcely drawing one
of that sort go down, twenty Right Whales do.  This difference in the
of the Indian.  Drawn into the waiting boat, they were quickly brought to
of the Leviathan that but few supposed to be at this particular time lurking
of the Mediterranean coast.  How is that?  But was there no other way for the
of the Peace.  In addition to those fine engravings from Garnery, there are
of the Sperm Whale, was the lightest and most corky part about him; and yet
of the beasts of the earth which is not infinitely outdone by the madness of
of the east.  But while they freely waive a ceremonial like this, they do by
of the excited headsman; as at every dart, hauling in upon his crooked
of the fishery.  For as the swift monster drags you deeper and deeper into
of the headsman when drawing near to his prey, the three mates stood up
of the latter, yet that small section of him is all wrong.  It looks more
of the line in any way attached to the boat, and were the whale then to run
of the ocean; and that the sperm whale, unlike other species, is supplied
of the prophet, was something obscurely in reference to his incarcerated body
of the seas have ever been regarded with emotions unspeakably unsocial and
of the skin or blubber of the whale.  It has already been said, that it is
of the small dark slabs of the noble South Sea war-wood, are frequently met
of the softest Turkey --the tongue, which is glued, as it were, to the floor of
of the swimming crew are scattered about the whale in contrasting expressions
of the tun, when it is lengthwise hoisted up and down against a ship's side.
of the watery defile in which the ship was then sailing, and bethought him
of the whale as he actually appears to the eye of the whaleman when in his own
of the whale's skin.  In life, the visible surface of the Sperm Whale is not
of the whale, watching these sprinklings and spoutings --that all this should
of the whale.
of the whales, at length they seemed abating their speed; gradually the ship
of the whole length of the creature, then setting that length down at eighty
of their former captain, had he been at all minded to work them legal
of them actually burst their blood-vessels in the boat; no wonder that some
of them, the twigs.  So, in productive subjects, grow the chapters.  The crotch
of these?  As for the book-binder's whale winding like a vine-stalk round the
of thousands of those who have gone upon the waters; though but a moment's
of vapory spouts, individually curling up into the air, and beheld through a
of whales defined along the undulating ridges.  But you must be a thorough
of whaling should have been there shadowed forth.  The Hindoo whale referred
of whose mere
official superior, quietly resigned to him for the time the sole management
often hailed the morning with their trunks uplifted in the profoundest
often mistaken for it.  And consequently Derick and all his host were now in
often startled by the sharp slapping of their tails against the hull, within
oftentimes tumultuous and bursting sea.  Bear in mind, too, that under these
oil, Stubb stoutly stood up to his spermaceti supper at the capstan-head,
oil-pots and let them fry there awhile.  Many a good supper have I thus made.
old Dutch savage, Albert Durer.  Wooden whales, or whales cut in profile out
old Monongahela!  Then, Tashtego, lad, I'd have ye hold a canakin to the jet,
old chronicles whales and dragons are strangely jumbled together, and often
old times, there seem to have prevailed the most curious fancies concerning
old times, we find the headwaters of our fraternity in nothing short of the
old-fashioned Bibles, embellished with curious, unscientific plates; one of
on a plain.  And still, at wide intervals in the silvery night, the lonely,
on each side of the anus; but the breasts themselves extend upwards from
on her side; every bolt in her starts like the nail-heads of an old house in
on the american line-tub, the boat looks as if it were pulling off with a
on the coast of Mexico, August,
on the frontier of the host; or possibly carrying on the war within the first
on the whip itself, the hoisters ran him high up to the top of the head,
on this, you would take the head for the trunk of some huge oak, with a
on through both opposing elements at once.  A continual cascade played at the
on to it so resolutely, indeed, that when at length the ship would have been
once raise its head above the surface.  But owing to his marked internal
one dam Ingin.
one dense crowd at the windlass.  When instantly, the entire ship careens over
one fish, because not only was he the largest, and therefore the most
one hand dropping his light low over the sea, so as to get a good view of
one of the boats (presumed to contain the missing leg in all its original
one of the peculiar characteristics of the savage in his domestic hours, is
one of the saddest sights you can see.  The head looks a sort of reproachfully
one of thy officers, if I mistake not.  Starbuck, look over the bag.  Every
one should draw out, the other may still retain a hold.  It is a doubling of
one they are alike.  Now, why should the whale thus insist upon having his
one, a pity it is that the whale does not possess this prehensile virtue in
only finished sketches at all capable of conveying the real spirit of the
only live by inhaling the disengaged air in the open atmosphere.  Wherefore
only making a general prophecy, which any one might have done, and so have
only one was captured.  The rest contrived to escape for the time, but only
only the maternal help.  For like certain other omnivorous roving lovers that
only to be seen at sea in unfathomable waters; and afloat the vast bulk of
only to blend with, and lengthen Ahab's.  As the crew toiled on, Laplandish
only true with respect to a species of the Leviathan (the Right Whale, and
opening of the seventh vial, which he carried in his vest-pocket; but, which,
opening; then giving way rapidly, and at the same time earnestly watching
operate from above, some eight or ten feet intervening between him and his
or cutting them, and making a prodigious sensation in all directions.  Nor,
or fish, wriggling is a sign of inferiority.  To the whale, his tail is the
or kink in the coiling would, in running out, infallibly take somebody's arm,
or layers of concentric spiralizations, without any hollow but the heart,
or less anticipated; yet does it present one of the more perilous vicissitudes
or minute vertical tube formed at the axis of the cheese.  As the least tangle
or ninetieth bucket came suckingly up --my God!  poor Tashtego --like the twin
or tail; and as from its greater density that part is relatively heavier
or three years or more.  Soon Starbuck returned with a letter in his hand.  It
or twelve feet in length; the staff is much slighter than that of the
or two afterwards, Moby Dick was fairly sighted from the mast-heads, Macey,
or two the prodigious blood-dripping mass sways to and fro as if let down from
or unspeakable
orange, so is it stripped off from the body precisely as an orange is
orders for securing it for the night, and then handing his lantern to a
ordinarily submerged, was plainly revealed.  His eyes, or rather the places
organ imparts.  The whale, therefore, must see one distinct picture on this
orlop there, where he lives, and hereabouts on the upper decks where he
other are concerned, should not tend to place those two opposite organs on an
other like skrimshander articles, as the whalemen call the numerous little
other phenomena which the exterior of the Sperm Whale presents, he not
other respects, you can hardly regard any creatures of the deep with the same
other, by merely stepping across the deck: --where, I should like to know,
others, form a vast mole, or rampart, lengthwise connecting Asia with
our calling be it said, that the first whale attacked by our brotherhood was
our order.  Our grand master is still to be named; for like royal kings of
our way whatever whales he could reach by short darts, for there was no time
out from the orthodox pagans of their times, equally doubted the story of
out into view; surging from side to side; spasmodically dilating and
out on the world from a sentry-box with two joined sashes for his window.
out the whale's spine phrenologically?  For, viewed in this light, the
outer concentric circles, and saw successive pods of whales, eight or ten in
outermost enveloping layer of any animal, if reasonably dense, what can that
over obliquely crossed and re-crossed with numberless straight marks in thick
over seem bursting from the marble in the carved Hercules, and its charm
over the sperm whale's head, so that it may lie bottom up; then, ascending
over towards the boat.  But as he did so, the oarsmen expectantly desisted
over, it sucked him in, so that he died embalmed.  How many, think ye,
overlap, then sideways recede from each other like wings, leaving a wide
overruns the globe.  Consider the subtleness of the sea; how its most dreaded
own from his mouth, Stubb scattered the dead ashes over the water; and, for
own, so as to be able to tell a calf's head from their own heads; which,
packed in its maziness of design, as the Greek savage, Achilles's shield;
padded animal as the insect does to the chrysalis that so roundingly envelopes
pads of lard diminished and all their bones heavy and rheumatic; then you
paint to you as well as one can without canvas, something like the true form
painted green, and which no single man can possibly lift --this vast bunch of
paintings and engravings they have of their whaling scenes.  With not one
paintings of this scene mislead us; for though the creature encountered by
palms of his hands fell off from him, and only the stump or fishy part of him
parallel to the Pequod, as she heavily forged through the sea (for by this
paralysed as it were, helplessly floated like water-logged dismantled ships on
part of its summit, in phrenological phrase you would say --This man had no
part of the business.  Out of the way, Commodore!  cried one, to a great
part of the regular linear appearance, by reason of numerous rude scratches,
particular whale he pursued; however this was, or whether his eagerness
particular, the demand has long been on the decline.  It was in Queen Anne's
parties; and though sharks also are the invariable outriders of all slave
parts, with the same sort of life that lives in a dog or a horse.  Indeed, in
pass that matter by.  i know of only four published outlines of the great Sperm
passage in their rear, and once more expand in comparative security upon the
passages, in scenes hereafter to be painted.
patches of
pate-de-foie-gras.  But Stubb, he eats the whale by its own light, does he?
pearl-colored membrane, like the line of a fine pelisse, forming the inner
peering into it, and putting his face in it.  You cannot go with your pitcher
pen-knife, and cut the big chains.  Knife?  Aye, aye, cried Queequeg, and
pepper and salt color of his head at the summit, giving token of advanced age
perceive the white mass, than with a quick intensity he instantly gave orders
perceived that the front of the Sperm Whale's head is a dead, blind wall,
performing his agile
perhaps the grandest sight to be seen in all animated nature.  Out of the
perhaps with the double view of retarding his rivals' way, and at the same
perhaps, ships shun the place; leaping over it as silly sheep leap over a
peril of the thing, it is to be doubted whether this course is always the
periodical dissolutions, he gave birth to Vishnoo, to preside over the work;
perishing; smothered in the very whitest and daintiest of fragrant
perpendicularly frozen into the hearts of fields of ice, as a fly is found
personal characteristics; yet nothing of this kind could be inferred from
perspectives.  There's a most doleful and most mocking funeral!  The
philanthropists to assist in speeding her on to her own chosen pursuit, --
phrase it.  This is what I mean.  If unmolested, upon rising to the surface,
phrenology to the Sperm Whale.  His cranial cavity is continuous with the first
physiognomical view to be had of the Sperm Whale, is that of the full front
pickle.  As for the ends of the flukes, have them soused, cook.  There, now
picture and not two to the brain; the peculiar position of the whale's eyes,
picture of the Sperm Whale.  Before showing that picture to any Nantucketer,
pictures, in which his idea has been most successfully embodied; these
pictures, so destitute as they are of all brawniness, hint nothing of any
pieces for the honor of old Gay-head?  What d'ye say?  I say, pull like
piercing shriek -- The vial!  the vial!  Gabriel called off the
pilot-boat.
pipe.  As the line passed round and round the loggerhead; so also, just
piratical hawks.  But the bird has a voice, and with plaintive cries will make
piratical proas of the Malays, lurking among the low shaded coves and islets
pitchpoling comes into play.  Look now at Stubb; a man who from his humorous,
pitiable to see.  but pity there was none.  For all his old age, and his one
pitiable; while still, in his amazing bulk, portcullis jaw, and omnipotent
pity, now, that this unfortunate whale should be hare-lipped.  The fissure is
plain things the knottiest of all.  And as for this whale spout, you might
plain, you will often discover images as of the petrified forms of the
plain; even so did this vast fleet of whales now seem hurrying forward
plains recumbent elephants without knowing them to be such, taking them for
planted as imperceptibly to blend their visual power, so as to produce one
play.  And still puffing at his pipe, Stubb cheered on his crew to the
plebeianised --so to speak --in the New World.
point hard by its insertion into the skull.  Do you not marvel,
point of being brought with a deadly dash against the vessel's side.  But
point of junction with its broad flukes or lobes.
point of view.  If you stand on its summit and look at these two f-shaped
point till the weapon stands fairly balanced upon his palm, fifteen feet in
pointed it out to me, in the skeleton of a foe he had slain, and with the
pole have gone down.  Now, the people of the Pequod had been baling some time
ponderous and profound.  And I am convinced that from the heads of all
ponderous profound beings, such as Plato, Pyrrho, the Devil, Jupiter, Dante,
poor Tash fell in, the case had been nearly emptied of its lighter contents,
popular work Goldsmith's Animated Nature.  In the abridged London edition of
porpoise grant from the crown.  The fact is, that among his hunters at least,
portentousness.  So rarely is it beheld, that though one and all of them
possible wrinkles and twists.  In the English boats two tubs are used instead
pout, by carpenter's measurement, about twenty feet long and five feet deep;
power, but the mere negative, feminine one of submission and endurance,
powerful and alert, to seek to hamstring him, as it were, by sundering or
powerless ship, and the inert mass of a dead whale, a conquered fortress,
prairie-like placidity, born of a speculative indifference as to death.
precipitancy; a disordered flight, as of Cleopatra's barges from Actium.
precisely the case with the whale, who systematically lives, by intervals,
precisely, that food consists.  At times, when closely pursued, he will
prehensile power, I should straightway bethink me of Darmonodes' elephant
preposterous it may at first seem to talk of any creature's skin as being of
present day confidently challenge the faith of the landsman.  It is time to
previous chapter Colnett and Cuvier have been referred to.  Huggins's is far
previous place I have described to you how the blubber wraps the body of the
previous to completely stripping the body of the leviathan, he was beheaded.
principle, I do not think I shall err; though I may possibly use some
procedure notwithstanding, which, in some instances, only seems to tickle
proceeds of the voyage), yet now and then you find some of these Nantucketers
procured for every crystal a sworn affidavit taken before a Greenland Justice
prodigious great wedding-cake to present to the whales.  Both ends of the line
profession, when we only bore arms to succor the distressed, and not to fill
profound darkness and nothingness to him.  Man may, in effect, be said to look
profound darkness; then, in order to see one of them, in such a manner as to
profounder and more subtle meanings, how may unlettered Ishmael hope to read
proudly, occasionally backing the after oarsman with an exhilarating cry of,
provincials then?  What befel the weakling youth lifting the dread goddess's
prow like a snow-slide, new slid from the hills.  Thus glistening for a
prow of his canoe.  Now, I consider that the phrenologists have omitted an
published a Natural History of Whales, in which he gives what he calls a
publisher somewhere about the 15th century, during the Revival of Learning;
purely fabulous creature, imitated, I take it, from the like figures on
purporting to be sober, scientific delineations, by those who know.  In old
pushes off from the ship, with the headsman or whale-killer as temporary
putting one foot into it, so as the better to secure his slippery hand-hold
puzzling question might be started concerning
pyramid of fat.  But the spermaceti itself, how bland and creamy that is;
pyramid.  Even Scoresby, the justly renowned Right whaleman, after giving us
pyramidical silence.  And this reminds me that had the great Sperm Whale been
quadruped's spine, you will be struck with the resemblance of its vertebrae
qualified for a pioneer, in the application of these two semi-sciences to the
qualified to excel in pitchpoling.  Look at him; he stands upright in the
quantity of blood in him, and so distant and numerous its interior fountains,
quantity too much stiffen the whale-line for the close coiling to which it
quarrelsomely carving away under the table at the dead meat; and though, were
quarter-deck, he paused to gaze over the side, then slowly getting into the
queer adventure of the Gay-Header's will be sure to seem incredible to some
question is, what and where is the skin of the whale?  Already you know what
question returns whether this gas-pipe is also a water-pipe; in other words,
question.  Where were you born, cook? 'Hind de hatchway, in ferry-boat,
quite a different affair: the ship hove-to upon the open sea, and in the
quite a wilderness of ropes in that quarter.  Thus much being said, attend
quite as workmanlike, but as close
quiver in him like a shaken jelly.  Yet habit --strange thing!  what cannot
race, had not a righteous judgment descended upon him in a crab which caught
rafted off in casks, from the Peruvian or Indian streams.  Hence it is, that,
raises our conceit of the mighty, misty
ranged about, would you not think you were inside the great Haarlem organ,
ranging up for another fling.  The red tide now poured from all sides of the
rapidly and steadily swimming, were now broken up in one measureless rout;
rapidly, they paid out abundance of rope, and at the same time pulled with
rarely achieved by the best harpooneers of the present day; inasmuch as this
rate --though indeed such a test at such a time might be deceptive --spoutings
rather overdone?  You've been beating this steak too much, cook; it's too
reach their mark; and many are only received after attaining an age of two
reach.  No perceptible face or front did it have; no conceivable token of
read in thirty languages, could not read the simplest peasant's face, in its
readily into the boat, and do not strain it so much; whereas, the American
really water, or nothing but vapor --this is surely a noteworthy thing.  Let
rear and covering the flight of his ladies.  In truth, this gentleman is a
reason for his want of faith.  It was this, if I remember right: Jonah was
reason.  Consider that the whale has nothing that can properly be called a
reasoning on the subject?  Speak out!  You have seen him spout; then declare
received in the fishery, that they are accounted mere child's play.  Some one
receives the boom-like lower jaw; you observe that the mouth is entirely
reciprocating bucket in a veritable well, dropped head-foremost down into
recognised at last, their immense magnitude renders it very hard really to
recovered from that irksome position it had so lately occupied in the
reflection into every face, so that they all glowed to each other like red
refused to work except when he pleased, the incredulous captain would fain
regular ridge-pole there; while these ribbed, arched, hairy sides, present us
regular way, round by the rigging.  It's a ticklish business, but must be
regularly hunted by man.  To the Nantucketer, they present the two extremes of
reigned over the before tumultuous but now deserted deck.  An intense copper
reliably apprised of the existence of Moby Dick, and the havoc he had made.
remain incognita, though once high-ruffed Mendanna trod them and old Figuera
remained.  Thus, then, one of our own noble stamp, even a whaleman, is the
remembered by the reader in some subsequent scenes.  A curious and most
reminded one of mowers.  Seen from the mast-heads, especially when they paused
reminiscence; --even so did the young of these whales seem looking up towards
remorselessly dashing each other to death.  Best, therefore, withhold
repartees, you never heard over your mahogany, than you will hear over the
repeated bloody chastisements they have received at the hands of European
repelling; though we know the sea to be an everlasting terra incognita, so
replenished with the most excellent of the wines of the Rhenish valleys, so
reply, raising some old war-whoop to the skies; as every oarsman in the
represented lying among ice-isles, with white bears running over their living
reptile of the land, instead of doing battle with the great monster of the
require a laborious re-discovery; like the Solomon islands, which still
rescue.  One packed rush was made to the side, and every eye counted every
resembling the thinnest shreds of isinglass, only it is almost as flexible
reservation that, until that time, anchor-watches shall be kept; that is,
respects.  While yet some distance from the Pequod, she rounded to, and
responded to by the stranger's setting her own; which proved the ship to be
resting crosswise upon the loom or handle of every man's oar, so that it jogs
retreated, but collectively remained in one place.  As is customary in those
retribution.  Some ten days after the French ships sailed, the whale-boat
revelled in dalliance and delight.  But even so, amid the tornadoed Atlantic
richness that coating could not possibly have compared with the silken
riding-whips.  With a long, weary hoist the jaw is dragged on board, as if it
right whale's head hoisted up opposite that parmacetti's.  In good time,
right.  While the ear of the former has an external opening, that of the
rim of the horizon.  I mention this circumstance, because, as if the cows and
ring; and so closely shoulder to shoulder, that a Titanic circus-rider might
ripple, as moment followed moment, and no sign of either the sinker or the
rising again to meet the sharp lance of his foes.  Yet not to speak of the
roaring glens between the outermost whales, were heard but not felt.  In this
rocket.  Almost in the same instant, with a thunder-boom, the enormous mass
rolled up on his wrists.  A deep, settled, fanatic delirium was in his eyes.
rope called a warp, of considerable length, by which it can be hauled back to
rope winding through these intricacies, was then conducted to the windlass,
rope; so that when the body has gone down, they know where to look for it
ropes went straight down into the blue --the gunwales of the bows were almost
round a table where red meat is being carved, ready to bolt down every killed
round until the deep cistern will yield no more.  Towards the end, Tashtego
round you than you can possibly chase at one time.  But sperm whales are not
roundabout, was generally recognised by the fishermen as an excellent spot for
row as ever you can; fill your dam' bellies 'till dey bust --and den die.
rowing, but by repeated loud and intrepid exclamations; and what it is to
ruefully contemplating his own amputation.  Throughout the Pacific, and also
running away with us like light, steered straight for the heart of the herd.
running whale; its grand fact and feature is the wonderful distance to which
said for some moments, while a succession of riotous waves rolled by, which
sail, then. --Halloa!  stop!  make a bow before you go. --Avast heaving again!
sailing down the Peruvian coast, when earthquakes caused the beach to gape.
sailor friend runs risk of the archiepiscopacy.  Let us withdraw more out of
sailors say) holding a painted board before him, representing the tragic
saith the Shaster, resolved to recreate the world after one of its
salvation was cheaply purchased by the loss of Queequeg's hat, who, while
same deficiency which in the sculptured Jove were hideous, in him is no
same preliminary proceedings commonly take place as in the case of a sperm
same thing, that is to say, a shocking sharkish business enough for all
sanctum sanctorum of the whale.  Only one sweeter end can readily be recalled
sank out of sight like a tower swallowed up.  There go flukes!  was the cry,
savage as an Iroquois.  I myself am a savage; owning no allegiance but to the
say, the skin peeled off from his cheek and arm.  Wherefore, among whalemen,
scene in which he lost his leg.  There are three whales and three boats; and
scenes to be anywhere found, are two large French engravings, well executed,
scenes, it is all in all what mood you are in; if in the Dantean, the devils
schooner, he returned with them to his vessel; and finding all right there,
scientific dash at the mass, and with a few sidelong, desperate, lunging
scientific predecessor in the same field, Desmarest, got one of his
scrape off with your hand an infinitely thin, transparent substance, somewhat
screw.  Though amid all the smoking horror and diabolism of a sea-fight,
scrougin' and slappin' each oder, Massa Stubb; dey don't hear one word; no
sea and the land; and do you not find a strange analogy to something in
sea in a calm, with his elevated hump sun-dried as a dromedary's in the
sea, he carries a surplus stock of vitality in him, just as the camel
sea, he swam back to his comrades.  Watching the boat till it was fairly
sea, owing to the body's immensely increasing tendency to sink.  However,
sea-coast, and as Leviathan was in the very act of carrying her off,
sea-horse; bearing all this in mind, it will not appear altogether
sea-vultures all in pious mourning, the air-sharks all punctiliously in
sea; and if he feel but a sailor's whisker, woe to that sailor, whiskers and
sea; the wooden poles of the spilled harpoons obliquely bob in it; the heads
seals and vials -- devoting the ship and all hands to unconditional perdition,
seaman, went his way into the cabin, and did not come forward again until
seamen like themselves.  So that did you carry them the news that another
seas, you find him unbent from the vast corpulence of his dignity, and
second thoughts, the Right Whale is toothless.  Another reason which
secret seas have hitherto revealed to mankind.  A vast pulpy mass, furlongs in
secrets of his belly; lay like a log, and died.  It was most piteous, that
secrets.  The schools composing none but young and vigorous males, previously
secure base for his supper; and, at the same time darting his fork into the
securing him.  Didn't I tell you so?  said Flask; yes, you'll soon see this
see them (as before you heard them) wallowing in the sullen, black waters,
seem derived from the name bestowed upon the harem itself, but some have
seem entirely content with presenting the mechanical outline of things, such
seem that its entire absence, as an external appendage, must very largely
seemed as a Roman triumphal arch.  When Angelo paints even God the Father in
seemed divulged to us in this enchanted pond.  We saw young Leviathan amours
seemed going mad with consternation.  In all directions expanding in vast
seemed still tethered to its dam.  Not seldom in the rapid vicissitudes of the
seemed the Sphynx's in the desert.  Speak, thou vast and venerable head,
seemed to be working in obedience to some particular presentiment.  Nor did
seemed to have egress at his other buried extremity, causing the waters
seemed to lurk in their very joints and bones, after what might be called the
seemingly their only vital part.  But in the foamy confusion of their mixed
seems all but miraculous.  How, at such an apparently unassailable surface,
seems an additional argument for the above supposition.  And how nobly it
seen Moby Dick and fought him, than to have seen thee, thou white ghost!
seen enough to split the planets and make an infidel of Abraham, and not one
seethingly advance their scythes through the long wet grass of marshy meads;
seizing the carpenter's heavy hatchet, he leaned out of a porthole, and
seizing the picturesqueness of things seems to be peculiarly evinced in what
seldom displays the back, and more especially his flanks, effaced in great
seldom remarkable as faithful essays.  On the spires of some old-fashioned
self-adjusting buoyancy and simultaneousness of volition and action, can you
self-esteem, and no veneration.  And by those negations, considered along with
semicircle, embracing one half of the level horizon, a continuous chain of
sense of smell seems obliterated in him; for the only thing about him that at
serpents.  And thus the work proceeds; the two tackles hoisting and lowering
serve to steer by.  Second: It is a little significant, that while one sperm
set sail.  Akin to the adventure of Perseus and Andromeda --indeed, by some
set the world right in this matter, by proving such pictures of the whale all
settle this matter with yourself, or for ever remain an infidel as to one of
seventh or Sunday of his time.  It has been said that the whale only breathes
seventy times, that is, respires seventy breaths; then whenever he rises
several harpoons to bend on to the line should the first one be ineffectually
several pictures of the different species of the Leviathan.  All these are
severest pointed harpoon, the sharpest lance darted by the strongest human
shadows that the three boats sent down beneath the surface, must have been
shall now go back to the subject of this steak.  In the first place, how old
shark dood right as toder to dat whale?  And, by Gor, none on you has de right
sharks will be seen longingly gazing up to the ship's decks, like hungry dogs
sharks, sartin; but if you gobern de shark in you, why den you be angel; for
sharp cracking noise was heard; and to the unspeakable horror of all, one of
ship mobbed by ice-isles in a tempest, and striving to steer through their
ship, the Jeroboam's boat by the occasional use of its oars contrived to keep
ships crossing the Atlantic, systematically trotting alongside, to be handy
ships of the American Whale Fleet have each a private signal; all which
shirts and drawers, we sprang to the white-ash,
shivering world ninety-six fac-similes of magnified Arctic snow crystals.  I
shoe, that old woman of the nursery tale, with the swarming brood, might
shook as if smitten by an iceberg.  The one remaining hook, upon which the
shooting by, apparently making a passage to some other ground, the Pequod
short-handled sharp spade being sent up to him, he diligently searches for
should be enrolled in the most noble order of St.  George.  And therefore, let
should follow the prophets.  For with the strength of a thousand thighs in his
should say it was a six-barreler; that is, it will yield you about that
should sound so deep as to threaten to carry off the entire line originally
shrieked out to his comrades to give way with their oars, and in that manner
side --about half way out of the sea, so that it might yet in great part be
side you hoist in Locke's head, you go over that way; but now, on the other
side, and another distinct picture on that side; while all between must be
side, hoist in Kant's and you come back again; but in very poor plight.
side, instead of the mutual tapering of both sides.
side, where fluke chains and other necessaries were already prepared for
side-ladder was being rigged by Starbuck's order to accommodate the visiting
sideboard; now then, go and preach to 'em!  Sullenly taking the offered
sighed Mayhew; but let me have it.  Nay, keep it thyself, cried Gabriel to
sight dragging after it the disengaged semicircular end of the first strip of
sight.  floating on their sides, the mothers also seemed quietly eyeing us.
sights are seen, my lord whale keeps a wary eye on his interesting family.
sights, to have looked over her side that night, would have almost thought
signals being collected in a book with the names of the respective vessels
significantly call it, was untouched.  As the boats now more closely
silence.  The chance comparison in this chapter, between the whale and the
silent, subtle, ever-present perils of life.  And if you be a philosopher,
silently serpentines about the oarsmen before being brought into actual play --
simultaneously dangling about him.  For, of course, each boat is supplied with
simultaneously; both whale and windlass heaving, the heavers singing, the
since those inventive but unscrupulous times when on the marble panellings of
sinews; but cut into it, and you find that three distinct strata compose it:
singular magnificence saluted us.  But here be it premised, that owing to the
sinking in this substance was in the present instance materially counteracted
situation then, I should call this high hump the organ of firmness or
skeleton was carried to Italy in triumph.  What seems most singular and
sketches of whales and whaling-scenes, graven by the fishermen themselves on
skilful leash.  The agonized whale goes into his flurry; the tow-line is
skill, and however much, in a flattering future, that science and skill may
skin of a new-born child.  But no more of this.  Assuming the blubber to be the
skin of the skin, so to speak; for it were simply ridiculous to say, that
skin of the whale; then, when this skin, as in the case of a very large
skin, one of these sharks almost took poor Queequeg's hand off, when he
skull, whoever you are.  A thin joist of a spine never yet upheld a full and
skylarking; how can Fedallah do that?  I don't know, Flask, but the devil
slackened, and the pitchpoler dropping astern, folds his hands, and mutely
slanting sun playing upon this crimson pond in the sea, sent back its
sleek, produced
sleepy, the anvil-headed whale would be best.  But these knocking whales are
slept by many a sailor's side, where sleepless mothers would give their lives
slewed round his boat and made after the leviathan lamp-feeders.  Now, the
slicings, severs it completely in twain; so that while the short lower part
slight contact with the outer, vapory shreds of the jet, which will often
slightly vapored with tar, not impregnated with it, as in the
slipperiness of the curb of the Sperm Whale's well.  But, peradventure, it may
sloping part of the front of the head, is there the slightest vestige of bone;
slowly descending head, Queequeg with his keen sword had made side lunges
slowness moves his immense flukes from side to side upon the surface of the
smacking his lips over a mouthful of Grenadier's steak.  And thus with oars
smacking of his own epicurean lips.  Cook, cook! --where's that old Fleece?
smackingly feasted on its fatness.  The few sleepers below in their bunks were
small bellies; so dat de brigness ob de mout is not to swallar wid, but to
small ice-field will, when a dense herd of white bears are scared from it
small tame cows and calves; the women and children of this routed host.  Now,
small, short, youngish man, sprinkled all over his face with freckles, and
smaller whales --now and then visiting our becalmed boat from the margin of the
smallest atom stirs or lives on matter, but has its cunning duplicate in
sneaks so much.  Damn the devil, Flask; do you suppose I'm afraid of the
so disposed, momentarily neared him.  In that fine, loose, chivalrous attitude
so largely abound, their wondrous voracity can be at times considerably
so nigh to his mark, he would be enabled to dart his iron before they could
so often will insist upon obtruding even when beholding the mightiest royal
so.  In profile, you plainly perceive that horizontal, semi-crescentic
society passed a resolution to patronize nothing but steel pens.
sole means of propulsion.  Scroll-wise coiled forwards beneath the body, and
solemn figure.  "Let me remove my hat.  Now, venerable priest, further into
solitary jet had gradually worked upon Ahab, so that he was now prepared to
some Nantucketers rather distrust this historical story of Jonah and the
some advantage in this; because these twin-tubs being so small they fit more
some enchanter's wand, the sleepy ship and every sleeper in it all at once
some unexaggerated, intelligent estimate of whatever battering-ram power may
some vast walled empire: and considering the inexhaustible wealth of spices,
some way ahead; but would be soon skilfully brought to her proper bearings
somehow and somewhere; else the most terrible jeopardy would involve all
something like old Amsterdam housewives' dough-nuts or oly-cooks, when fresh.
something over two hundred fathoms.  Towards the stern of the boat it is
sometimes carries on his pestilent back.  And all the while the thick-lipped
sometimes involve a slight loss of speed in the chase; but long experience in
sometimes pleased myself with fancying it exerted a magnifying influence.  At
sometimes stripped by spiralizing it.  For the strain constantly kept up by
sometimes worn at these times, had accidentally dropped.  It was like holding
somewhat resembling calves' head, which is quite a dish among some epicures;
somewhat slackened his flight.  Haul in --haul in!  cried Stubb to the
soon as the ship sailed down to them, they turned and fled with swift
soon made strangely manifest.  Stubb was a high liver; he was somewhat
sort of license prevailed, not only in most popular pictures of the whale,
sort our noble profession
sort, and then he'll surrender Moby Dick.  Pooh!  Stubb, you are
soul of man there lies one insular Tahiti, full of peace and joy, but
sound it slowly disappeared again, Starbuck still gazing at the agitated
soundings, or near shores; all other whales sometimes are.  He is both
speak of the Tigris waters, near the site of Nineveh, being too shallow for
speak of the passage through the whole length of the Mediterranean, and
spear-paddle, in its full multiplicity and elaboration of carving, is as
specialities and concentrations of potency everywhere lurking in this
species is no doubt imputable in no small degree to the greater quantity of
species of whales find their food above water, and may be seen by man in the
specific gravity in the fish so sinking, consequent upon this absence of
speculations were bandied among them, concerning all these passing things.
speed.  Besides, such is the breadth of the upper part of the front of his
sperm whalemen are absent four years with four barrels; no wonder that to
spermaceti; coffined, hearsed, and tombed in the secret inner chamber and
spigot out of him!  cries Stubb. 'Tis July's immortal Fourth; all fountains
spinal theory for a moment, in reference to the sperm whale's hump.  This
spiracles, the apertures in its sounding-board.  Then, again, if you fix your
spirally coiled away in the tub, not like the worm-pipe of a still though,
spoke.  start her, now; give 'em the long and strong stroke, tashtego.
spokes.  The sudden exclamations of the crew must have alarmed the whale; and
spout is so similar to the Sperm Whale's, that by unskilful fishermen it is
spout, whether with some scientific object in view, or otherwise, I cannot
spout-hole.
spout-holes, you would take the whole head for an enormous bass-viol, and
spouting all over the sea, and sprinkling and mistifying the gardens of the
spoutings out, unless it be to replenish his reservoir of air, ere
spray-column lowers and lowers to the ground --so the last long dying spout
spring --slap-jacks and quohogs for supper, you know, my lads --baked clams and
spring-head of it, so much the more am I impressed with its great
square feet --the pressure of the water is immense.  We all know what an
squares of wood of equal size are stoutly clenched together, so that they
staggering business truly in that rocking commotion.  From the vibrating line
staggeringly running off, fettered by the enormous sidelong resistance of the
stand for each other.  Thou art as a lion of the waters, and as a dragon of
standing in the bows to prick the fugitive whales, had his hat taken clean
stands in much the same respect to the whale that a dog does to the elephant;
start forwards, and slantingly ranged up on the German's quarter.  An instant
started into wakefulness; and more than a score of voices from all parts of
started with --that the Sperm Whale and the Right Whale have almost entirely
starts to run, the boat-header and harpooneer likewise start to running fore
state, is only three fourths, and not the entire substance of the coat; some
stationary ship that hideous sight is seen.  Beneath the unclouded and mild
stay so!  Spring, men -- pull, men; never mind their backs --scrape them!
steady, common sense exterior and offered himself as a green-hand candidate
steak cooked as it should be?  Take it, I say --holding the tongs towards him
steel to iron, began slashing at the largest fluke-chains.  But a few strokes,
steersman, and the harpooneer or whale-fastener pulling the foremost oar,
step with his tongs, which, after a clumsy fashion, were made of straightened
stick of a peculiar form, some two feet in length, which is perpendicularly
stiletto-like cry that startled every man from his nod, the negro yelled out
still in bold, hopeful chase.  Oh!  many are the Fin-Backs, and many are the
still lingered in their wake to pick up what drugged whales might be dropped
still more, for many feet after emerging from the brain's cavity, the spinal
stillness almost preternatural spread over the sea, however unattended with
stock of a descending anchor --as stamped and gilded on the backs and
stomach-ache, I'm afraid.  Lord, think of having half an acre of stomach-ache!
stood leaning over with eyes attentively fixed on this head.  It was a black
stopped the leaks for the time.  It had been next to impossible to dart these
stories of them which are to be found in certain books, both ancient and
story; for in the ancient Joppa, now Jaffa, on the Syrian coast, in one of
stoven and sunk!  Beware of the horrible tail!  I tell thee again, Gabriel,
straight perpendicular
straightway the whale's unharming corpse, with trembling fingers is set down
strained boat involuntarily bounced forward with the one tremendous leading
straits of Sunda and Malacca.  By the straits of Sunda, chiefly, vessels
stranded fish; and these are about as correct as a drawing of a wrecked ship,
strange creature as that?  Nor does Hogarth, in painting the same scene in
strange things were hinted in reference to this wild affair.
strange, apostolic whim having seized him, he had left Neskyeuna for
stranger world met our eyes as we gazed over the side.  For, suspended in
stream.
strength has much to do with the magic.  Take away the tied tendons that all
stretch the long islands of Sumatra, Java, Bally, and Timor; which, with many
stricken whale, that from the tub has reeled out hundreds of fathoms of rope;
strike the first iron into the fish; for often, in what is called a long
striking at a boat, he swiftly curves away his flukes from it, and the blow
stript from him in long pieces, called blanket-pieces.  Like most sea-terms,
striving to wrest it out of your clutch.  Wet the line!  wet the line!  cried
stroke which the eager Indian gave.
struck by its resemblance to the human skull, beheld in the same situation,
structure which gives him regular lungs, like a human being's, the whale can
struggle was intensely critical; for while they still slacked out the
stubb to the tub oarsman (him seated by the tub) who, snatching off his hat,
studded oriental archipelagoes.  This rampart is pierced by several sally-ports
stump-speech does the poor whaleman make; but, with downcast eyes, stands
subdivided part, called the junk, is one immense honeycomb of oil, formed by
subject, and that subject almost hidden in a discolored, rolling, and
submarine bridal-chambers and nurseries vanished; in more and more
substance which so impregnably invests all that apparent effeminacy.  In some
substance, and then partaking of it.  In the long try watches of the night it
subterraneous manner, without so much as getting one single peep into the
subtlest secrets of the seas
subtleties, to which the veteran whaleman is so often forced, none exceed
succeeded in getting one iron fast.  Meantime, Gabriel, ascending to the
successful, on account of the greater weight and inferior length of the
successful, then at the second critical instant, that is, when the whale
such a thing really happens; and in the present case Captain Derick De Deer
such an audacious enterprise, eight or ten loose second irons may be
such dried bits, which I use for marks in my whale-books.  It is
such fancy as the above seemed his.  And when he glanced upon the green walls
such great bodies are at times encountered, yet,
such observations of the hills, that your precise, previous stand-point would
such questions to him, that the stranger captain could not forbear inquiring
such times you should think that you really perceived drops of moisture in
sudden roll of the sea, the little craft stands half-erect out of the water,
sudden slap on the shoulder, -- Cook!  why, damn your eyes, you mustn't swear
suddenly going down in a maelstrom, within three rods of the planks, he
suddenly in the distance, they saw a great heap of tumultuous white water,
suddenly relieved hull rolled away from it, to far down her glittering copper;
suddenly saluted by what sometimes seems thousands on thousands.  Broad on
suddenly vibrated in the water, distinctly conducting upwards to them, as by
suggestively important in this story, is this: it was from Joppa that Jonah
suit," cried the company, with exceeding interest.  "Is there a copy of the
sullenly.  And you have once in your life passed a holy church in Cape-Town,
sun has raced within his fiery ring, and needs no sustenance but what's in
superficial western one; though, by vast odds, the most terrific of all mortal
superfluous scientific words.  Assume it, and it follows that if all the
superincumbent mass of the junk and sperm.  At the high end the skull forms a
supper cooking in the great bowels below.  Sea fowls are pecking at the small
suppose that that devil you was speaking of just now, was the same you say is
suppose.  Bargain? --about what?  Why, do ye see, the old man is hard bent
supposed to be indirectly derived from it --is that famous story of St.  George
surface of his head, and a little to one side; this curious canal is very
surface of the Sperm Whale's case.  It will have been seen that the Heidelburgh
surface, and anon swims with it high elevated out of the water; considering
surface, and there he cannot spout even if he would.  Besides, if you regard
surmised that the man who first thus entitled this sort of Ottoman whale,
surrounded him, the whole upper part of his form, with much of it that is
suspending the cutting stages over the side, and lowering three lanterns, so
swallowed by the whale in the Mediterranean Sea, and after three days he was
swallowed down and thrown up by a whale; still, whether that strictly makes a
swallowed over and over again by the same mouth, to be oppositely voided by
swam through the brit, which, adhering to the fringing fibres of that wondrous
swarming-time the bees rush to the boughs.  Bare-headed in the sultry sun,
swift whales had been gaining upon the ship, than to rejoice that the ship
swiftly glided into what had just been one of the outer circles, but now
swims behind it all a mass of tremendous life, only to be adequately
swings, else it may box his ears and pitch him headlong overboard.  One of
switching his hoofs, up and says, "I want John." "What for?" says the old
sword of him that layeth at him cannot hold, the spear, the dart, nor the
sword, had thrust his long arm far inwards and upwards, and so hauled out our
sword, in all its
syllable is thine!  Sail ho!  cried a triumphant voice from the
symbols; that the whale, indeed, by these methods intelligently conversed
symmetry in the Sperm Whale's which the Right Whale's sadly lacks.  There is
symptoms of sinking with all its treasures unrifled.  Immediately, by
tackles, among other ponderous things comprising a cluster of blocks generally
tail, Leviathan had run his head under the mountains of the sea, to hide him
tail, there was enough to appal the stoutest man who so pitied.  Seeing now
takes the jam which would have snapped all their oaken handspikes and iron
tall tapering masts mildly waved to that languid breeze, as three mild palms
tapped.
teachings.  Such is the subtle elasticity of the organ I treat of, that
technically called a clean one (that is, an empty one), well deserving the
technically known as the schoolmaster.  It is therefore not in strict
temples, the pedestals of statues, and on shields, medallions, cups, and
temporarily lodged in some part of his mouth.  And this seems reasonable
temporarily taking the breath out of the bodies of the oarsmen.  Next instant,
tender.  Don't I always say that to be good, a whale-steak must be tough?
tenth of England's experience in the fishery, and not the thousandth part of
tents really lie encamped beyond my mortal sight!
terrible is it to behold, when fathoms down in the sea, you see some sulky
terrific portcullis; and such, alas!  it proves to many a poor wight in the
terrific wreck of the stoven planks.  The prow of the boat is partially
terror, skittishly curvetting about both boat and whale, entangling the lines,
terror-stricken crew from the further hunting of the whale.  This terrible
than a ton; from this incumbrance the Sperm Whale is wholly free.  But there
than all three tigers --Queequeg, Tashtego, Daggoo -- instinctively sprang to
than an inch in thickness.  At the crotch or junction, these flukes slightly
than any other (excepting the side-fins), its flexibility even in death,
than if he were stealing upon you from behind.  In a word, you would have two
that Columbus sailed over numberless unknown worlds to discover his one
that Gabriel had the complete freedom of the ship.  The consequence of all
that I have heard hunters who have declared them akin to Free-Mason signs and
that I have known some whalemen who peremptorily deny that the Sperm Whale
that a Right Whale should be captured that day, if opportunity offered.  Nor
that almost omnipotent tool of the sailor, they will turn you out anything
that but a very few moments more would give the Pequod's boats the advantage,
that by three such thin threads the great Leviathan was suspended like the big
that certain Englishmen, who long ago were accidentally left in Greenland by
that destroyed him.  "Are you through?" said Don Sebastian, quietly.  "I am,
that escaped at the lip.  As morning mowers, who side by side slowly and
that fine manoeuvre with the lance called pitchpoling.  Small sword, or broad
that hard white whalebone with which the fishermen fashion all sorts of
that has caused them.  To insure the greatest efficiency in the dart, the
that he towed; he had also run away with the cutting-spade in him; and while
that head upon which the upper sun now gleams, has moved amid this world's
that his precise expression the devil himself could not catch.  But it may be
that in disposition answers to the sagacious kindness of the dog?  The
that in the almost endless sculptures of that immemorial pagoda, all the
that is in thee.  Of all divers, thou hast dived the deepest.
that mainmast there?  pointing to the ship; well, that's the figure one;
that makes the voyage, and if you take the breath out of his body how can
that moment seized with some momentous idea; whereas it was only the poor
that name as the Banks of Newfoundland do, because of there being shallows
that of a Fin-Back, belonging to the species of uncapturable whales,
that of the Americans, they have nevertheless furnished both nations with the
that oriental sea are enriched, it seems a significant provision of nature,
that poured from the smitten rock.  At last his spout grew thick, and with a
that purpose.  Your hat, however, is the most convenient.
that so frequented the flower-market, and with low salutations presented
that sort of consistence and thickness, yet in point of fact these are no
that spite of all their gallantry, he would have proved the victor in this
that stump to an incredulous world.  But the time of his justification has now
that such treasures, by the very formation of the land, should at least bear
that the great Kraken of Bishop Pontoppodan may ultimately resolve itself into
that the spout is nothing but mist.  And besides other reasons, to this
that they performed a complete circuit.  Meantime, they hauled more and more
that thinking after all he might not as yet be alarmed, Ahab gave orders that
that this would be the case, and occasionally with a deriding gesture shook
that though he can take in an undiscriminating sweep of things at one glance,
that through that gate lay the route to his vengeance, and beheld, how that
that to the timid eye of the landsman, they seem as Indian jugglers, with
that valiant whaleman of old is vaguely represented of a griffin-like shape,
that way when you're preaching.  That's no way to convert sinners, Cook!
that way, and to my breezelessness bring his breeze!  O Nature, and O soul of
that whatever other business he has to attend to, waking or sleeping,
that when at last the jerking harpoon drew out, and the towing whale sideways
that you can derive anything like a truthful idea of the living whale as seen
that your heart, there? --that's your gizzard!  Aloft!  aloft! --that's it --now
that, Mr. Flask?  How old do you suppose Fedallah is, Stubb?  Do you see
that, in the old Dutch fishery, a mop was used to dash the running line with
that-- But again the boat tore ahead as if dragged by fiends.  Nothing was
that.  When by chance these precious parts in a nursing whale are cut by the
the
the Cape of Good Hope was advanced as a signal magnification of the general
the Case, may be regarded as the great Heidelburgh Tun of the Sperm Whale.
the Case.  But to comprehend it aright, you must know something of the
the Evangelists," said Don Sebastian, gravely, returning with a tall and
the German, the Pequod's three boats now began ranging almost abreast; and,
the Jeroboam of Nantucket.  Squaring her yards, she bore down, ranged abeam
the Northern seas, and so cheating summer of all unpleasant weariness and
the Pagan temples, there stood for many ages the vast skeleton of a whale,
the Pequod pressed after them; the harpooneers handling their weapons, and
the Pequod's crew could hardly resist the spell of sleep induced by such a
the Pole with the revolutions of the bright points that first defined him to
the Right Whale largely feeds.  For leagues and leagues it undulated round us,
the Shore Whaling, on soundings, among the Bays of New Zealand, when a Right
the Southern fishers the bonnet of the Right Whale; fixing your eyes solely
the Sperm Whale will continue there for a period of time exactly uniform with
the Sperm Whale, become notified of the three keels that were after them,
the Spermaceti Whale Fisheries.  In this book is an outline purporting to be
the Squid was a thing of portents, to Queequeg it was quite a different
the White Whale!  Upon this, the seamen rushed to the yard-arms, as in
the act of leaping, as if from a precipice.  The action of the whole thing is
the admiral's cabin, don't you suppose he can crawl into a port-hole?  Tell me
the affirmative fact of his prodigious bulk and power, you can best form to
the air.  He minds you somewhat of a juggler, balancing a long staff on his
the animal ridden by St.  George might have been only a large seal, or
the appearance, however ineffectual, of being guarded from the all-grasping
the attending harpooneers now advances with a long, keen weapon called a
the awful Chaldee of the Sperm Whale's brow?  I but put that brow before you.
the axles of carriages are anointed; and for much the same purpose, some
the battle is depicted on land and the saint on horseback, yet considering
the beheaded whale flashes like a marble sepulchre; though changed in hue, it
the bigness of a man's spread hand; and in general shape, corresponds to
the blade of his midship oarsman.  While this clumsy lubber was striving to
the blinding vapor cleared away, when a naked figure with a boarding-sword in
the boat's bow, did you never hear that the ship which but once has a Sperm
the body is now completely separated from it, with a lantern we might descend
the bower; and so, being a great traveller, he leaves his anonymous babies
the bows, it continues its way to the gunwale still a little further aft,
the bucket within grasp of the Indian, to whom another person has reached up
the bumps on the head of this Leviathan; this is a thing which no
the canal tapers in size, but for a considerable distance remains of large
the capstan, I'll tell you what to do so as not to spoil it by overdoing.
the cause of his devious wake in the unnatural stump of his starboard fin.
the chances.  But it very often happens that owing to the instantaneous,
the chief mate, burned with ardor to encounter him; and the captain himself
the coils of the harpoon-line round his tail, the cutting-spade itself had
the completion of the scene; so no face can be physiognomically in keeping
the cranium and jaws, and the upper an unctuous mass wholly free from bones;
the crazed creatures to and fro rushing about us; our beset boat was like a
the crazy sea that seemed leagued with him.  It seemed that the Jeroboam had
the creature that feeds his lamp, and, like Stubb, eat him by his own light,
the creature's age, as the age of an oak by its circular rings.  Though the
the creature?  this he?  Oh!  that unfulfilments
the crossing and re-crossing, into ten thousand infiltrated cells, of tough
the cry from the ship to the boats, which, for one instant, seemed on the
the customary cheering cry was heard from aloft, and ere long a spectacle of
the day of judgment, than for thee, civilized and enlightened gourmand, who
the deadliest snakes sportively festooning their limbs.  Nor can any son of
the deck, is there held by two or three alert hands.  These last now hoist
the deck; but Tashtego was long in coming to, and Queequeg did not look very
the demigod then, why not the prophet?
the demonstrations of two distinct problems in Euclid.  Nor, strictly
the devil didn't give John the Asiatic cholera before he got through with
the divine love in the Son, the soft, curled, hermaphroditical Italian
the drops fell like bits of broken glass on the water, while the whale
the extreme pointed prow of the boat, where a wooden pin or skewer the size
the eye of that whale a bow-window some five feet long.  Ah, my gallant
the falling form of Macey, was plainly descried from the ship.  Raising a
the fight, curved round his trunk and extracted the dart.  Fourth: Stealing
the first rush of the harem's lord, then is it very diverting to watch that
the fish's flank.  When reaching far over the bow, Stubb slowly churned his
the fish, be sure you stand by to get the tips of his fins; have them put in
the fish.  And now it is struck; for, starting
the frantic shoal, you bid adieu to circumspect life and only exist in a
the free end of the rope attached to that weapon, had permanently caught in
the gaping wound.  Nor was this all.  It was unsafe to meddle with the corpses
the garden implement after which it is named; only its sides are perfectly
the great ignorance of those times, when the true form of the whale was
the hand after darting.  But before going further, it is important to mention
the harpoon line; and in the extraordinary agony of the wound, he was now
the herd, was owing to a cause which at first the intervening distance
the hieroglyphics upon one Sperm Whale in particular, I was much struck with
the historical story of Jonah and the whale in the preceding chapter.  Now
the index, middle, ring, and little finger.  But all these are permanently
the jaw is lashed down to ringbolts, and a tackle being rigged from aloft,
the jungle overlays her own cubs, so the sea dashes even the mightiest whales
the knot-holes of the noblest oaks when prostrate, so from the points which
the ladies their busks and other stiffening contrivances.  But in this
the largest sized Evangelists you can." "This is the priest, he brings you
the least among the many marvels he presents.  Almost invariably it is all
the lens of Herschel's great telescope; and his ears capacious as the porches
the light wreath of vapor from the spiracle at his other extremity, you would
the light, and hold the Holy Book before me that I may touch it."
the line out to the end almost in a single, smoking minute as he sometimes
the line; the object being this: to dart them both, if possible, one
the living stuff!  Again and again to such gamesome talk, the dexterous dart
the long lance is accurately darted from a violently rocking, jerking boat,
the luckless mate, so full of furious life, was smitten bodily into the air,
the main body of the crew striking up a wild chorus, now commence heaving in
the measureless crush and crash of the sperm whale's ponderous flukes, which
the mightiest elephant is but a terrier to Leviathan, so, compared with
the monster to which these arms belonged ordinarily clings by them to the bed
the moonlight.  I see no need for this." "Excuse me for running after you,
the most appalling,
the most delicate oil; yet, you are now to be apprised of the nature of the
the most vague ideas concerning its true nature and form;  notwithstanding,
the mountains, accelerate their march, all eagerness to place that perilous
the mouth.  It is very fat and tender, and apt to tear in pieces in hoisting
the mutinous boat rapidly shot away from the Pequod.  As, after this
the necessity
the night, which obscured the spars and rigging aloft, the two --ship and
the north, if unsupplied with his cosy surtout?  True, other fish are found
the old black, not in any very high glee at having been previously routed from
the old black, with both hands placed as desired, vainly wriggling his
the one known as the harpooneer-oar.  Now it needs a strong, nervous arm to
the ordinary periods of respiration.  But why pester one with all this
the other, without the slightest warning; and only by a certain
the other?  Preternatural terrors rested upon the Hebrews, when under the
the outer end of the lower jaw.  Sometimes these tufts impart a rather
the outskirts of the shoal.  In about three minutes' time, Queequeg's harpoon
the overhanging main-yard-arm, to the part where it exactly projects over the
the palms of his flukes, still freshly retained the plaited crumpled
the pasture by three fierce wolves, they could not possibly have evinced such
the placing of the cap-sheaf to all this blundering business was reserved for
the pod in advance, seemed questionable; for it is not customary for such
the present other matters press, and the best we can do now for the head, is
the profundities of the ocean, and bearing high in the air upon his back the
the proper place to begin breaking into the Tun.  In this business he proceeds
the proper skin of the tremendous whale is thinner and more tender than the
the proper word to use in the present connexion.  By my retentive memory of
the reflection that he has a nose to be pulled.  A pestilent conceit, which
the sailors do?  They do not suspend between them, at the point of coming
the same course with fencing and boxing, riding and rowing.  I know that this
the scaramouch in question had gained a wonderful ascendency over almost
the scene.  Serious fault might be found with the anatomical details of this
the scientific Frederick Cuvier, brother to the famous Baron.  In
the sea for rods.  The milk is very sweet and rich; it has been tasted by
the sea, saith ezekiel; hereby, plainly meaning a whale; in truth, some
the sea.  Full in this rapid wake, and many fathoms in the rear, swam a
the sea.  Had these leviathans been but a flock of simple sheep, pursued over
the ship.  The boats were here hailed, to tow the whale on the larboard
the shops of oil-dealers, what shall be said of them?  They are generally
the side fin, the bones of which almost exactly answer to the bones of the
the sky, and every one present must take good heed to dodge it when it
the sky.  More and more she leans over to the whale, while every gasping
the small fish, when open-mouthed he goes through the seas of brit in feeding
the smallest insect.  So that when I shall hereafter detail to you all the
the smoker's boat, and much nearer to it than to any of the others, Stubb
the soft eye of the antelope, and the lovely plumage of the bird that never
the solemn churches that preach unconditional inoffensiveness by all to all.
the speed of the whale as the before described exhaustion of the harpooneer
the sperm whale's head, now, by the counterpoise of both heads, she regained
the spot where an entrance is subsequently forced into the spermaceti
the spout is deemed poisonous; they try to evade it.  Another thing; I have
the spout, how do you know that they are not merely condensed from its vapor;
the stern.  Oars!  Oars!  he intensely whispered, seizing the helm -- gripe
the story of your obstinate survival of old beliefs never bottomed on the
the sun and the sea.  I say it only shows his foolish, impious pride, and
the tail; for in this respect there is a delicacy in it only equalled by the
the timber-heads to which the fluke-chains and cables were fastened, that it
the tun of the whale contains by far the most precious of all his oily
the two enormous hooks suspending the head tore out, and with a vast
the unborn whale lies bent like a Tartar's bow.  The delicate side-fins, and
the unobstructed elasticity of its envelop; considering the unique interior
the upper end of the line is taken aft from the tub, and passing round the
the varieties of that order), concerning which the fishermen have this saying,
the vast host would only deploy into the Oriental seas to witness the capture
the vessel, simultaneously with the three notes from aloft, shouted forth the
the western clearings.  But, though for ever mounted on that stump, never a
the whale of the bigness of a human head.  This particular feat of the shark
the whale really looks like.  And the only mode in which you can derive even a
the whale would by all hands be considered a noble dish, were there not so
the whale's eyes corresponds to that of a man's ears; and you may fancy, for
the whale's eyes had once occupied, now protruded blind bulbs, horribly
the whale, as you may say; even so, in a shower, with the like
the whale.  Pull up --pull up!  he now cried to the bowsman, as the waning
the whaleman's can head off like that?
the whole round sea was one huge cheese, and those sharks the maggots in it.
the windlass continually keeps the whale rolling over and over in the water,
their decrees.  It signifies God: done this day by my hand.  But in most
their feet, and standing in a diagonal row, simultaneously pointed their
their glorying crews all over with showers of gore, capsizing Flask's boat and
their hours of ocean leisure.  Some of them have little boxes of
their indolent crests; and across the wide trance of the sea, east nodded to
their most appalling beauty from it.  Real strength never impairs beauty or
their oars and crews into the air, very much as an Indian juggler tosses his
their unctuousness is small.  As for the sons and the daughters they beget,
them at all, and though she had passed numbers of them near the Crozetts
them have any but
them into still greater activity.  But it was not thus in the present case
them.  But the sight of the enraged drugged whales now and then blindly
them.  I wonder what the old man wants with this lump of foul lard, said
themselves seem clear, eternal, tideless mountain lakes; and all above them
then --except after explanation --that this great monster, to whom corporeal
then I have another idea for you.  If you attentively regard almost any
then attached to the middle of this block, and the other end of the line
then given the probable cause inducing those vast aggregations.  Now, though
then mixed with flour, and cooked into a most delectable mess, in flavor
then over and over slowly revolved like a waning world; turned up the white
then rapidly sprung backwards, it is this which gives that singular darting,
then they change places; and the headsman, the chief officer of the little
then, I rather guess when he finds himself docked in that queer fashion,
then, at Stubb's boast, that he demanded but ten minutes to behead a sperm
then, it seems to me, is to let this deadly spout alone.  Still, we can
there are certain curious marks, curves, hollows, and ridges, whereby some
there to drink, as the Highland hunters track the snow prints of the deer.
there was a terrible tumult.  Looking over the side, they saw the before
there, a curious involved worming and undulation in the atmosphere over my
there, my civilized and enlightened gourmand dining off that roast beef,
there?  It is the same he died with, only some of the longer wrinkles in the
there?  Well, then, pull ahead, and let's get the whale alongside.  I think
therefore no longer of use.  Paddles were dropped, and oars came loudly into
these
these blinds.  One voyager in Purchas calls them the wondrous whiskers
these is the spout.  It is well known that the elephant will often draw up
these qualities in him, as well as to the thousand concurring accidents of
these ten years, they tell me, has that man held up that picture, and
these thunder-heads overboard, and then you will float light and right.  In
these unprofessional attempts, let us glance at those pictures of leviathan
they are so elevated, and besides that are to all intents and purposes so
they believe it to furnish to the sperm whale his only food.  For though other
they came snuffling round us, right up to our gunwales, and touching them;
they contrive to gouge out such symmetrical mouthfuls, remains a part of the
they drag out these teeth, as Michigan oxen drag stumps of old oaks out of
they most piously do pounce.  Oh, horrible vultureism of earth!  from which
they were now at last under the influence of that strange perplexity of inert
they would well grace the hand of man, remain wholly inexplicable.  In an
thick spoutings, they plainly betrayed their distraction of panic.  This
thickening clusters.  Yes, the long calm was departing.  A low advancing hum
thickness.  At first sight, you would not think it so strong as it really is.
thigh-board, in which the headsman stands, is torn from its place and
thin, isinglass substance, which, I admit, invests the entire body of the
thing for salamander giants only to encounter; how small the chances for the
thing of the sea, and eat it too by its own light.  But no doubt the first
things earthly, and intuitions of some things heavenly; this combination
things), is much more handsome and becoming to the boat, than hemp.  Hemp is
think that that was the smoke from the touch-hole.  Fifth: As in the ordinary
third of his entire bulk, and completely to suspend such a burden as that,
third of his entire length from the front.  Wherefore, you must now have
thirty feet long, is inserted for a handle.
thirty feet of his body are tossed erect in the air, and so remain vibrating
this ball; I trod the ship; I knew the crew; I have seen and talked with
this book will be incidentally shown.  It is also very curiously displayed in
this book-binder's fish an attempt at a whale; because it was so intended
this dangerous affair.  But why say more?  All men live enveloped in
this difficulty is ingeniously overcome: a small, strong line is prepared
this great Tun of Heidelburgh, and with a horrible oily gurgling, went
this mighty monster is actually a diademed king of the sea, whose green
this nineteenth century such a hippogriff could be palmed for genuine upon any
this noiselessness came Ahab alone from his cabin.  Taking a few turns on the
this one is very happy and significant.  For the whale is
this skull is as the side view of a moderately inclined plane resting
this terrific object seemed to recall the whole herd from their stationary
this visual matter as touching the Leviathan.  But I must be content with a
this was, that the archangel cared little or nothing for the captain and
this, of course, must wholly separate the impressions which each independent
those circles, the entire area at this juncture, embraced by the whole
those mysterious cyphers on the walls of pyramids hieroglyphics, then that is
those rocks must not a little resemble the Sperm Whale in this particular.  It
those tongs; --now take that bit of steak there, and tell me if you think that
those watery vaults, floated the forms of the nursing mothers of the whales,
thou fill his skin with barbed irons?  or his head with fish-spears?  The
thou makest it sink in an element of a far greater specific gravity than
though in some few known instances giving birth to an Esau and Jacob: -- a
though seated in the whale-boat, you would not at heart feel one whit more of
though taking a broad general view of the thing, this may very well be; yet
though the green palmy cliffs of the land soon loomed on the starboard bow,
though this sculpture is half man and half whale, so as only to give the tail
thoughtlessness, do we nowadays fly under the same jaws for protection; the
thoughts of Moby Dick, we now gazed at the most wondrous phenomenon which the
thoughts.  For, d'ye see, rainbows do not visit the clear air; they only
thousand dollars, men! --a bank! --a whole bank!  The bank of England! --Oh, do,
thousand red oxen to the sea gods.  In the first place, the enormous cutting
threatened to swamp us.  Hard down with your tail, there!  cried a second
three hundred on a side, which depending from the upper part of the head or
three lights up and down in the Pequod's main-rigging dimly guided our way;
three or four sailor tarts, that is whaleboats full of mariners: their
three whales in various attitudes, capping his second chapter.  His
through an ear which is smaller than a hare's?  But if his eyes were broad as
through his spiracle, and this made the sight of him unspeakably
through his spout-hole; if it could truthfully be added that his spouts are
through that same gate he was now both chasing and being chased to his deadly
through the Isthmus of Darien, and mixed the Atlantic with the Pacific, you
through the main hatchway right beneath, into an unfurnished parlor called the
through the spinal canal.  For I believe that much of a man's character will be
through the straits; gradually contracting the wings of their semicircle,
throughout on a level base.  But in life --as we have elsewhere seen --this
thumbs and fingers, slowly toiled hour after hour upon that inert, sluggish
thunder-claps,  that's all, cried Stubb, spluttering out the smoke as he
thus annihilated; oftener the boat's bow is knocked off, or the
thus cannibally carving each other's live meat with carving-knives all gilded
thus exhibited exceeding twenty and thirty feet in length.  They fancy that
thus lay entranced, the occasional sudden frantic spectacles in the distance
thus, through the courage and great skill in obstetrics of Queequeg, the
thy most familiar home.  Thou hast been where bell or diver never went; hast
ticklish business of securing what you can.  I know not with what fine and
tightened line in one direction, and still plied their oars in another, the
till drawing nearer we saw Ahab dropping one of several more lanterns over the
time economically accelerating his own by the momentary impetus of the
time it blew very fresh), with her main-topsail aback; though, indeed, at
time of the Commonwealth.  Thus, some of the best and furthest-descended
time that the bone was in its glory, the farthingale being then all the
time, a certain cook of the court obtained a handsome reward for inventing an
time, such a grand
time.  In the central blinds of bone, as they stand in their natural order,
time; never mind if they lie side by side and touch each other.  But if you
times by the sudden onset of a large rolling wave, the boat would be pushed
timid man-of-war or blundering discovery-vessel from afar, when the distance
title-pages of many books both old and new --that is a very picturesque but
to Captain Mayhew, who stood in the boat's stern; come on board.  But now
to a strung necklace of dwarfed skulls, all bearing rudimental resemblance
to all his tribe, who must, no doubt, imprecate lock-jaws upon him.  In most
to another, which, close to our gunwale, seemed calmly cooling himself with
to be any way maltreated, say or do what he would; so that it came to pass
to be borrowing oil on the whale-ground, and however much it may invertedly
to be taken, as will hereafter be seen, by some other craft than the Pequod.
to dat whale; dat whale belong to some one else.  I know some o' you has
to drawing teeth.  With a keen cutting-spade, Queequeg lances the gums; then
to fly.  But the fagged whale abated his speed, and blindly altering his
to help demselves.  Well done, old Fleece!  cried Stubb, that's
to hold on; till at last --owing to the perpendicular strain from the
to know what country you were born in, cook?  Didn't I say de Roanoke
to lay them down.  Thou saw'st the locked lovers when leaping from their
to make good his regular allowance of air.  And not till those seventy breaths
to make long ones.  Nor were the oarsmen quite idle, though their wonted
to pray heaven the tackles may hold.  Now, during the past night and forenoon,
to quicken the activity of the excited seamen.
to rock.  By and by, through the glass the stranger's boats and manned
to seem inelegant, but this unsightly whale looks much like an amputated sow;
to set an example of superhuman activity to the rest, not only by incredible
to such a sight again, you must be sure and take the exact intersecting
to the London docks, you may have seen a crippled beggar (or kedger, as the
to the business of cutting him in.  For that business is an exceedingly
to the light buoyancy of the whaleboat, and the elasticity of its materials,
to the magnitude of the head.  Now, from this peculiar sideway position of the
to the skull proper.  It is a German conceit, that the vertebrae are
to their ears, this important difference is to be observed between the sperm
to this fountain and fill it, and bring it away.  For even when coming into
to this great head it begins to assume different aspects, according to your
to watch this harem and its lord in their indolent ramblings.  Like
to wave his orders to the helmsman, cast
to!  I mean when you die, cook.  It's an awful question.  Now what's your
to, occurs in a separate department of the wall, depicting the incarnation of
together our own.  Of the grand order of folio leviathans, the Sperm Whale and
together; for one will soon sink, unrecorded, in the sea; the other will not
token of that proceeding being entirely unnecessary.  It turned out that the
told him if Gabriel was sent from the ship, not a man of them would remain.
tolerable idea of his living contour, is by
ton, you have ten tons for the net weight of only three quarters of the stuff
tongs straight over his head, and keeping it there very solemnly.  So, then,
tongs, cook, and hear my orders.  Do ye hear?  Hold your hat in one hand, and
tongue on each side of his mouth.  As every one knows, these same hogs'
took more than customary pains in that occupation; crawling under its bottom,
topmost skies, to see whether the fabled heavens with all their countless
tormented colossal claw from the flame Baltic of Hell.  But in gazing at such
torn shreds, followed by strange subterranean commotions in him, which
tossed bow of the flying boat; wrapt in fleecy foam, the towing whale is
tossing the keen spade about him, wounding and murdering his own comrades.
touching at a score of ports, the whale-ship, in all that interval, may not
touching it.  And I know one, who coming into still closer contact with the
touching that species, declares not to have its counterpart in nature.  But
touching the precise nature of the whale spout.  It will not do for him to be
touching the set terms, places, and occasions, when sharks do most socially
towards the sky his one beating fin.  So have I seen a bird with clipped wing,
towers between them like a great mountain separating two lakes in valleys;
towing drugg.  They were cramped like malefactors with the chain and ball.
town-crier would ever find her again.  Before lowering the boat for the chase,
trades and pursuits, every conceivable avocation of man, were prefigured ages
transparent, as I said before; and being laid upon the printed page, I have
traveller is continually girdled by amphitheatrical heights; here and there
treats of the various faces of men, but also attentively studies the faces of
tried to shut down the dead lid of his murderous jaw.  Queequeg no care what
trowsers we are much better entitled to st.  george's decoration than they.
true, seems the more cogent to me, when I consider the otherwise inexplicable
true.  Nor is the history of fanatics half so striking in respect to the
try it; I'd give him such a pair of black eyes that he wouldn't dare to show
tub, nearly three feet in diameter and
tumbling upon their inner centre, as if to pile themselves up in one common
turn round on his centre half way, seize his harpoon from the crotch, and
turn to this green, gentle, and most docile earth; consider them both, the
tutelary guardian of England; and by good rights, we harpooneers of Nantucket
twenty line-of-battle ships, with all their guns, and stores, and men on
twin-jets of the Right Whale, which, dividing at top, falls over in two
two and two for an hour, each couple, the crew in rotation shall mount the
two boats were slowly advancing with their burden towards the ship, but I
two great whales, laying their heads together; let us join them, and lay
two mariners, darting their long whaling-spades, kept up an incessant
two other French engravings worthy of note, by some one who subscribes
two things --however large or however small --at one and the same instant of
umbrella being a tent spread over the same bone.  But now forget all about
unattended with the saddest and most fatal casualties.  Furthermore: you must
unawares upon the whale in the fancied security of the middle of solitary
unbroken, and is drawn just balancing upon the monster's spine; and standing
under extreme headway.  Steel and wood included, the entire spear is some ten
under one of their few aspects of oriental repose.  The other engraving is
under the Pequod's lee, and lowered a boat; it soon drew nigh; but, as the
under the head, much in the same way, indeed, as though your own mouth were
understand his head?  much more, how comprehend his face, when face he has
undulates through a Titanism of power.  On the contrary, those motions derive
undulating in the trough of the sea, and ever and anon tranquilly spouting
undulations.  And, not to speak of the highly presumable difference of
unearthly, formless, chance-like apparition of life.  As with a low sucking
unexhausted brain.  In the title-page of the original edition of the
unharmed --while swift lightnings shivered the neighboring ship that would have
universal cannibalism of the sea; all whose creatures prey upon each other,
universal problem of all things.  The mark they thus leave on the whale, may
universally, a lone whale --as a solitary Leviathan is called --proves an
unknown to artists; and considering that as in Perseus' case, St.  George's
unmolested, there is an undeviating rhyme between the periods of his jets and
unnatural dislocation.  In
unprincipled young rakes like him are to be permitted to invade the sanctity
unsuspected connexion with the outer air, so as to be susceptible to
untimely stroke should invade the sanctuary and wastingly let out its
untoward circumstances he has to cut many feet deep in the flesh; and in that
unwearied activity with which of late they have been hunted over all four
unwonted bustle was he in that the staid Starbuck, his
up and enchanted in him; he had no voice, save that choking respiration
up mountain defiles, the elephant's brow is majestic.  Human or animal, the
up the coil of the warp in one hand, so as to secure its free end in his
up with rain.  Nor is it at all prudent for the hunter to be over curious
upheld, the body would at once sink to the bottom.  It so chanced that almost
upon first cutting into him with the spade, the entire length of a corroded
upon the old man, and vehemently exclaimed, with downward pointed finger
upon the school of females, you invariably see a male of full grown magnitude,
upon the whale, and essaying to get a fair chance for his poised lance, lo!
upon their lines, till close flanking him on both sides, Stubb answered
upon their merit.  In bony, ribby regions of the earth, where at the base of
upward exclusion of water, therefore the whale has no voice; unless you
upwards and backwards from the whale, and the triumphant tackle rises into
us lifelessly swung from the spars, and for every swing that we made there
us our coffee, is the Yarman; don't you see that big tin can there alongside
us up.  Keeping at the centre of the lake, we were occasionally visited by
us, but not at us, as if we were but a bit of Gulf-weed in their new-born
us, then, look at this matter, along with some interesting items contingent.
use a-preachin' to such dam g'uttons as you call 'em, till dare bellies is
use; three oarsmen are just setting the mast in its hole; while from a
used by whalemen in hunting the famous Gallipagos terrapin.
utmost monster of the seas was writhing and wrenching in agony!  Not eight
vacancy between.  In no living thing are the lines of beauty more exquisitely
vacant sea.  For this part of the Indian Ocean through which we then were
vacillations of movement displayed by some whales when beset by three or four
vacuum, because their leader originally leaped there when a stick was held.
vain handspikes and crows were brought to bear upon the immovable
valiant chase of this unnearable brute.  The Virgin crowding all sail, made
valuable whale, but he was nearest to them, and the other whales were going
van, still encouraged his men to the onset, all the while puffing the smoke
vanished; then, with the tapering force of his parting momentum, we glided
vapor --no absolute certainty can as yet be arrived at on this head.  Sure it
various whalemen of more than one nation has convinced me that in the vast
vast plaited forehead forms innumerable strange devices for the emblematical
vast white headless phantom floats further and further from the ship, and
vast, mild head overhung by a canopy of vapor, engendered by his
veil at Sais?
venerable leviathans to be at all social.  Nevertheless, he stuck to their
versions of the Bible use that word itself.  Besides, it would much subtract
vertebrae of which he was inlaying, in a sort of basso-relievo, the beaked
very comfortably be lodged, she and all her progeny.  But as you come nearer
very curious touches at the whale, where all manner of spouts, jets d'eau,
very heart of the Leviathanic life, with a Right Whale alongside; the vessel
very impressions, man has lost that sense of the full awfulness of the sea
very place, is the thickest part of him.  Remember, also, that the surgeon must
very slowly and deliberately indeed, affording Queequeg a fair chance for
vessels, which vessels, when he quits the surface, are completely distended
vessels, which, in those waters, have been remorselessly boarded and pillaged.
vibration the enormous mass sideways swung, till the drunk ship reeled and
vicar-general of all Oceanica.  The unflinching earnestness with which he
viciously snapped, not only at each other's disembowelments, but like
view, you feel the Deity and the dread powers
vintages; namely, the highly-prized spermaceti, in its absolutely pure,
violence is discernible; the man being stark dead.  The whole calamity, with
violent scraping contact with vast floating icebergs --I should say, that
violent, convulsive running of the whale upon receiving the first iron, it
virtue of interior spaciousness.  Oh, man!  admire and model thyself after the
visible sphere a strange spectre was seen by Daggoo from the main-mast-head.
vision in advance of the straight side-line of sight; and about thirty more
vivid green Cockatoo Point on the Sumatra side, emerging at last upon the
volition, in which their divided and diametrically opposite powers of vision
vomited up somewhere within three days' journey of Nineveh, a city on the
voyaging is not what whalemen call a lively ground; that is, it affords
wad.  Finally, though, as will soon be revealed, its contents partly comprise
waif is a pennoned pole, two or three of which are carried by every boat;
wake, though indeed their back water must have retarded him, because the
wall that hemmed us in; the wall that had only admitted us in order to shut
walls to find where the gold is masoned in.  By the time this cautious search
want to use him." "Take him," says the governor --and by the Lord, Flask, if
war-chariot (especially in front, where it is so broadly rounded); so, at a
warm afternoon.  But that pipe, poor whale, was thy last.  As if struck by
warmth is as indispensable as it is to man; how wonderful that he should be
warmth.  By the time they have lounged up and down the promenade of the
was a nod from below from the slumbering helmsman.  The waves, too, nodded
was exactly, there is no telling now; but, on a sudden, as the eightieth
was exceedingly still and sultry, and with nothing special to engage them,
was fearful of infecting the Pequod's company.  For, though himself and boat's
was flung; the stricken fish darted blinding spray in our faces, and then
was impossible to cast them off.  Meantime everything in the Pequod was
was soon heard; and then like to the tumultuous masses of block-ice when the
was sorely tumbled, damp, and covered with a dull, spotted, green mould, in
was still more strangely evinced by those of their number, who, completely
was the nature of those occult lessons he inculcated into some of his pupils.
was this long wanting.  Tall spouts were seen to leeward; and two boats,
watches the monster die.
water or dust in his trunk, and then elevating it, jet it forth in a
water; in many other ships, a wooden piggin, or bailer, is set apart for
water; which, when three years afloat, the Nantucketer,
water; you observe that the lower part of that front slopes considerably
waters where it had sunk, with a wild voice exclaimed -- Almost rather had I
waters, and the best of wives she is, though she keeps so many moody
waves whispered together as they softly ran on; in this profound hush of the
waves; there, that blood-dripping head hung to the Pequod's waist like the
wavingly held by the German.  Impossible! --a lamp-feeder!  Not that, said
way greatly diminished; moreover, that as we went still further and further
way; an event still more likely from the violent motions of the head.  Come
we commenced the slow business of towing the trophy to the Pequod.  And now,
we go like three tin kettles at the tail of a mad cougar!  This puts me in
we moved.  For, upon the great canal of Hang-Ho, or whatever they call it, in
we saw an arm thrust upright from the blue waves; a sight strange to see, as
we swiftly but silently paddled along; the calm not admitting of the
we thus tore a white gash in the sea, on all sides menaced as we flew, by
we were now in that enchanted calm which they say lurks at the heart of every
weapon must, at all events, be anticipatingly tossed out of the boat,
weapons and their wants.  She has a whole lake's contents bottled in her ample
wearing mourning for the devil?  And if the devil has a latch-key to get into
wearing redundant yellow hair.  A long-skirted, cabalistically-cut coat of a
ween, if peradventure he had needed it; but upon the banquet of his funeral
weight of fifty atmospheres.  One whaleman has estimated it at the weight of
weight to an eight day clock.  Suspended?  and to what?  To three bits of
welcome cry was heard -- Stand up, Tashtego! --give it to him!  The harpoon was
well of sperm; no ivory teeth at all; no long, slender mandible of a lower
went a sauntering into the old flag-ship once, switching his tail about
went hot and hissing along every one of their wrists.  It was the magical
went out of my body; though my body still continued to sway as a pendulum
went, while the multitudes of sharks that had before swum round the Sperm
were an anchor; and when the proper time comes --some few days after the other
were popularly supposed to be a species of the Leviathan.  In the vignettes
were preparing to cast anchor in the deep; for heavy chains are being dragged
were providentially in want of precisely that number
were spilled out, and sailed over by the three flying keels.  Don't be
were the thing to do it.  Nor does this --its amazing strength, at all tend to
west, and the sun over all.  Suddenly bubbles seemed bursting beneath my
western world.  The shores of the Straits of Sunda are unsupplied with those
whale and the
whale be a king, he is a very sulky looking fellow to grace a diadem.  Look
whale hunt.  For the most part, the English and American whale draughtsmen
whale is going up like the smoke over a village of smithies; and to
whale might have crawled up out of the sea on the beach; and considering that
whale might have swallowed, and which he was fearful of breaking ere he
whale now settled that the submerged ends could not be at all approached,
whale only fights another sperm whale with his head and jaw, nevertheless,
whale relaxed in his wrath.  Pull up! --close to!  and the boat ranged along
whale seems concentrated to a point.  Could annihilation occur to matter, this
whale should see the world through so small an eye, and hear the thunder
whale soon ceasing to sound, for some time they remained in that attitude,
whale stays under water, the more he is exhausted.  Because, owing to the
whale to land the prophet within that short distance of Nineveh?  Yes.  He
whale with perpendicular flukes.  Then again, there is an imposing quarto,
whale wounded (as we afterwards learned) in this part, but not effectually,
whale!  Do thou, too, remain warm among ice.  Do thou, too, live in this world
whale's decapitation --and striking it into the lower part of the
whale's eyes is a thing always to be borne in mind in the fishery; and to be
whale's eyes, it is plain that he can never see an object which is exactly
whale's flesh that night.  Mingling their mumblings with his own mastications,
whale's head as a solid oblong, you may, on an inclined plane, sideways
whale's head?  For even when tranquilly swimming through the mid-day
whale's jaw, if you narrowly search, you will at last see a lashless eye,
whale's majestic flukes.  But go to the old Galleries, and look now at a great
whale's proper brain, you deem it incapable of being adequately charted,
whale's rising exposes him to all the fatal hazards of the chase.  For not by
whale, I will do my endeavor.  I try all things; I achieve what I can.
whale, and perilously drew over his swaying
whale, as the rind wraps an orange.  Just so with the head; but with this
whale, but let that pass; since, for the life of me, I could not draw so
whale, floating there suspended, with his prodigious jaw, some fifteen feet
whale, is not so much to be regarded as the skin of the creature, as the
whale, seemed yoked together like colossal bullocks, whereof one reclines
whale, sweep inshore by the Philippine Islands, and gain the far coast of
whale, the chain is readily made to follow suit; and being slipped along the
whale, the other is slowly slackened away, and down goes the first strip
whale-jets were up-playing and sparkling in the noon-day air.  Unlike the
whale-line.  The line originally used in the fishery was of the best hemp,
whale-lines.  All are born with halters round their necks; but it is only
whale-lines; for, though not so durable as hemp, it is stronger, and far
whale-ship at sea.  If you have never seen that sight, then suspend your
whale-ship takes out a goodly number of letters for various ships, whose
whale-ships ever beheld, and returned to their ports to tell of it.  But
whale.  At the middle of the forehead horizontally subdivide this upper quoin,
whale.  But then there were some sceptical Greeks and Romans, who, standing
whale.  Instead of sparkling water, he now spouts red blood.  That drove the
whale.  No wonder, taking the whole fleet of whalemen in a body, that out of
whale; only, in the latter instance, the head is cut off whole, but in the
whale?  When first severed, the head is dropped astern and held there by a
whaleman of him, that might be mooted.  It nowhere appears that he ever
whaleman, to see these sights; and not only that, but if you wish to return
whalemen calculate
whalemen.  The ivory Pequod was turned into what seemed a shamble;
whaler anchored, inshore, in a calm, and lazily taking water on board; the
whalers perform an analogous operation upon their boat; they grease the
whales that thus sank were old, meagre, and broken-hearted creatures, their
whales, I am strongly tempted here to enter upon those still more monstrous
whales, who sometimes come to deadly battle, and all for love.  They fence
whales; only they did not so completely come and go; for they constantly
whaling life where individual notabilities make up all totalities.  He was a
what is that handle made of? --what but the bones of the brother of the very ox
what the spout is; can you not tell water from air?  My dear sir, in this
whatever; and into the hole itself you can hardly insert a quill, so
wheat.  On the second day, numbers of Right Whales were seen, who, secure
wheel-spokes fly, boys, when you fasten to him that way; and there's danger of
when a general pausing commotion among the whales gave animating token that
when caught in the swift, sudden turn of death, that mortals realize the
when he is about to plunge into the deeps, his entire flukes with at least
when instantly, a swift tremor was felt running like lightning along the keel,
when it shall have ascended again.  It was not long after the sinking of the
when pierced even by so small a point as a harpoon, a deadly drain is at once
when seamen fall overboard, they are sometimes found, months afterwards,
when the device was first introduced.  It was introduced by an old Italian
when tossed by pirates from the midnight deck; for hours he fell into the
when used as a fin for progression; Second, when used as a mace in battle;
when you are close enough to a whale to get a close view of his spout, he is
when,
whence he derived that picture, who can tell?  Perhaps he got it as his
where Ahab, though everywhere else foiled in his pursuit, firmly counted upon
where he stood was so treacherous and oozy; or whether the Evil One himself
where his eyes had been, were beheld.  As strange misgrown masses gather in
where it hung over the side, and rubbing in the unctuousness as though
where the Right Whale is often chased.
where you doubtless overheard a holy parson addressing his hearers as his
whereby when wounded, the blood is in some degree at least instantly shut off
whether he intended to hunt the White Whale, if opportunity should offer.  To
whether wielded in sport, or in earnest, or in anger, whatever be the mood it
which Ahab answered -- Aye.  Straightway, then, Gabriel once more started to
which aboriginally belongs to it.  The first boat we read of, floated on an
which experienced whale surgeons very much pride themselves; and not without
which is a lesson by no means to be forgotten.  Midwifery should be taught in
which may probably be set down at nine months, producing but one at a time;
which must remain unpainted to the last.  True, one portrait may hit the mark
which on all hands it is conceded, form the peculiar practical virtues of his
which refuses to give up its dead; still in dreams sees the awful white whale
which represented Jonah's whale with two spouts in his head --a peculiarity
which the Right Whale strains the water, and in whose intricacies he retains
which the city's legends and all the inhabitants asserted to be the identical
which they swim, hence, a herring or a cod might live a century, and never
which undoubtedly contribute so much to the great strength of the masonry.
which you would fancy to be a young colt's eye; so out of all proportion is it
while Stubb, softly crawling behind, overheard all that was said.
while every moment whole tons of ponderosity seemed added to the sinking bulk,
while other ships may have gone to China from New York, and back again,
while ponderous planets of unwaning woe revolve round me, deep down and deep
while stretching from them, on both sides, was the foaming swell that he made.
while the other remains standing.  If moody Ahab was now all quiescence, at
whit the less facts, for all that.  One old Sag-Harbor whaleman's chief reason
white mist, continually rising and falling away to leeward.  Seen from the
white-bone or swell at his broad muzzle was a dashed one, like the swell
who being planted before the ark of Israel, his horse's head and both the
who have a genuine relish for that particular part of the Sperm Whale
whole air and demeanor, he hisself won't go nowhere; but some bressed angel
whole bulk of the leviathan is knit over with a warp and woof of muscular
whole they are hereditarily entitled to en bon point.  It is very curious
wholly disappeared from view, as if diving under the keel.  Cut, cut!  was
why, those sons and daughters must take care of themselves; at least, with
wide extent of the herd had hitherto prevented them from learning the precise
wild wood-lands.  There are generally forty-two teeth in all; in old whales,
will about his face, I say again he has no face.
will come and fetch him.  Fetch him?  How?  In a coach and four, as they
will occur to you; if in that of Isaiah, the archangels.  Standing at the
will that help him; jamming that iron-bound bucket on top of his head?  Avast,
will you obtain a better chance to study practical cetology than here?  In the
will, long after the power which first moved it is withdrawn.  Ere
wind I ever knew to blow from astern; but look, did ever whale yaw so
windward, a black cloud, rising up with earnest of squalls and rains, seems
with a wooden float at its outer end, and a weight in its middle, while the
with all the reckless energy of his tribe was venting his wild exclamations
with any game hereabouts, the ship had well nigh entered the straits, when
with both hands folded before him, and resting on his two-legged cane, he
with equal eye.
with experienced whalemen afloat, and learned naturalists ashore.
with in the forecastles of American whalers.  Some of them are done with much
with its black hull close to the vessel's, and seen through the darkness of
with its side or belly considerably elevated above the surface.  If the only
with many other sinewy Saxonisms of this sort, which emigrated to
with might and main clinging to his seat, to prevent being tossed to the
with much less reason too than the Indian's, considering the exceeding
with my shoulders leaning against the slackened royal shrouds, to and
with one hand holding on to the heavy tackles, so that if the head should
with oxygenated blood.  So that for an hour or more, a thousand fathoms in the
with stun-sail piled on stun-sail, we sailed along, driving these
with such great velocity, moreover,
with teeth in order to attack and tear it.  There seems some ground to imagine
with that mast, for oughts, do you see; well, that wouldn't begin to be
with the Pequod's sharks; though, to be sure, any man unaccustomed to such
with the flag of capture lazily hanging from the whale-pole inserted into his
with the hempen one, so that the cub is thereby trapped.  Some of the
with the jaundice, or some other infirmity.  Whether this whale belonged to
with the next trial, he came forth in the good old way --head foremost.  As
with the world.  Nor are there wanting other motions of the whale in his
with their long lower jaws, sometimes locking them together, and so striving
with those wondrous, half vertical, scimetar-shaped slats of whale-bone, say
with two elements, it could not be expected to have the power of smelling.
with what little strength may remain, he essays to pitch it somehow into the
without a single organ or tender prominence of any sort whatsoever.
without at all sounding, still continued his horizontal flight, with added
without being of it.  Be cool at the equator; keep thy blood fluid at the
without lowering a boat; yet now that a Sperm Whale had been brought
without still another interruption of a very different sort.  Pulling an oar
without the elevated open-work belfry of the nose.  Dash the nose from
withstand it; in that dreamy mood losing all consciousness, at last my soul
wonderful comparative smallness of his brain proper is more than compensated
wonderfully good and true.  The half-emptied line-tub floats on the whitened
wondrous devices and dexterities, the sleights of hand and countless
wondrously minute is it.  It is lodged a little behind the eye.  With respect
wooden block, it caught under one of the seats of the boat, and in an
woraciousness, fellow-critters, I don't blame ye so much for; dat is natur,
word to the seamen at the whip, up comes the bucket again, all bubbling like
work --Queequeg, Daggoo, and Tashtego, being all accomplished dentists, are set
worked loose from his flesh.  So that tormented to madness, he was now
world it is not so easy to settle these plain things.  I have ever found your
world, unless forced to stammer out something by way of getting a living.
world-wandering whale-ship carries no cargo but herself and crew, their
world.  If you unload his skull of its spermy heaps and then take a rear view
worse than the Persian host who murdered his own guests; sparing not the
worshipped white-elephant in the coronation procession of the Siamese!  So
would be gone.  As devout Eckerman lifted the linen sheet from the naked
would have it to fall out so, without stating his particular reasons; how it
would have you investigate it now with the sole view of forming to yourself
would not elevate one hair of your eye-brow.  For unless you own the whale,
would then live without breathing.  Anomalous as it may seem, this is
wounded arm, cried cruel Flask, pointing to the whale-line near him.  Mind
wounded planks, but we stuffed two or three drawers and shirts in, and so
wrinkled granite hieroglyphics.  But there is no Champollion to decipher the
wrinkles there to the
written a book, spoken a speech?  No, his great genius is declared in his
written by one Captain Colnett, a Post Captain in the English navy, entitled
wrong.  It may be that the primal source of all those pictorial delusions will
ye burst a blood-vessel?  Who's that been dropping an anchor overboard --we
ye may go.
ye?  cried Stubb to the body, don't be in such a devil of a hurry to sink!
years afterwards,
yellow brit, gave unusual tokens of the vicinity of Right Whales, a species
yet it is to be observed that as a whole the herd neither advanced nor
yet to be slain; and though a thousand other whales were brought to his ship,
yet, even in the case of one of those young sucking whales hoisted to a ship's
you Queequeg --the whale there! --prick him! --hit him!  Stand up --stand up, and
you are an entire stranger to their race, you might hunt over these two
you are but a provincial and sentimentalist in Truth.  But clear Truth is a
you are eating?  And what do you pick your teeth with, after devouring that
you don't see his tail, is because he tucks it up out of sight; he carries
you expect to find it there when most wanted!  Again, if the dart be
you expect to go up into our main-top, do you, cook, when you are dead?
you had best provide for your summary retreat from Nantucket.  In a word,
you have it.  Hold it there now, and pay attention.  All 'dention, said
you is all sharks, and by natur wery woracious, yet I
you observe that his eyes and ears are at the sides of his head, nearly one
you please, in the way of a mariner's fancy.  Long exile from Christendom and
you stood before, there, over against me, and pay particular attention.
you to turn the whole affair upside down, it would still be pretty much the
you would have thought from the sound on the Pequod's decks, that all hands
young and tender, free from the same heinousness of mistake.  Look at that
your cold-blooded, lungless fish, whose very bellies are refrigerators;
your ears.  You would find that you could only command some thirty degrees of
your oars, and clutch your souls, now!  My God, men, stand by!  Shove him off,
yourself the truest, though not the most exhilarating conception of what the
yourself, how it would fare with you, did you sideways survey objects through
yourself?  For as this appalling ocean surrounds the verdant land, so in the
yourselves; take plenty of time --but start her; start her like
zay to you, fellow-critters, dat dat woraciousness --'top dat dam slappin' ob
