

































































     (Ahab moving to go on deck; Pip catches
     Accursed fate!
     Ahab goes; Pip steps one step forward.) Here he this instant stood;
     And now that at the proper time and place,
     And so saying, he placed himself half way within the scuttle, and slouching
     At day-break, the three
     Away with me!  let us fly these deadly waters!  let us home!  Wife and child,
     But here I'll stay, though this stern strikes rocks; and they bulge
     But only by the replacing of the cap was that omen accounted good.  Ahab's
     D'ye see him?  cried Ahab; but the whale was not yet in sight.  In his
     Fedallah; and then settling his firm relying eye upon the chief mate, said,
     GREAT FORCE, THE COFFIN LIFE-BUOY SHOT LENGTHWISE FROM THE SEA, FELL OVER,
     Ha!  yonder!  look yonder, men!  cried a foreboding voice in her wake.  In
     I knew it --ye can't escape --blow on and split your spout, O whale!  the mad
     I'll solve it, though!  When dusk descended, the whale was still in sight
     It was a clear steel-blue day.  The
     OF THAT SLOWLY WHEELING CIRCLE, LIKE ANOTHER +IXION +I DID REVOLVE. +TILL, G
     Oh, Ahab, Ahab, lo, thy work.  Steady!  helmsman, steady.  Nay, nay!  Up
     Omen?  omen? --the dictionary!  If the gods think to speak outright to man,
     Sir?  My body, man, not thee.  Give me something for a cane -- there, that
     Stand not by me, but stand under me, whoever you are that will now help
     THE ENSUING SCENE, AND IN FULL SIGHT OF IT, WHEN THE HALF-SPENT SUCTION OF T
     That night, in the mid-watch,
     The Parsee!  cried Stubb -- he must have been caught in-- The black vomit
     The harpoon, said Ahab, half way rising, and draggingly leaning on one
     The intense Pequod
     The wide tiers of welded tendons overspreading his broad white forehead,
     Then God keep thee, old man --see'st thou that --pointing to the hammock -- I
     To the credulous mariners it seemed the same silent spout they had so long
     Towards thee I roll, thou all-destroying but unconquering whale; to the last
     Weep so, and I will murder thee!  have a care, for Ahab too is mad.
     a boy, from the sand-hills of Nantucket!  The same! --the same! --the same to
     a whole hour now passed; gold-beaten out to ages.  time itself now held long
     and yet somehow so young; aye, and not changed a wink since I first saw it,
     but this swift motion of the deck creeps up one's legs and tingles at the
     but, Ahab, there thy shot fell short.  Good by, mast-head --keep a good eye
     craft the carpenter made him another leg; while still as on the
     eyes Fedallah gazed, and crossed his arms; but the tiger-yellow crew were
     flag faster and yet faster to the subsiding spar.  A sky-hawk that tauntingly
     freely giving his whole life into such an otherwise distrusted person's
     he descended into his cabin, leaving the strange captain transfixed at this
     helm!  take the helm; let me pass, --and so saying, two of the oarsmen
     horns; his lovely, leering eyes sideways intent upon the maid; with smooth
     like a tossed bubble which the least chance shock might burst.  From the
     power; how then can this one small heart beat; this one small brain think
     right away from us; cannot have seen the ship yet.  Be dumb, man!  Stand
     simultaneously feeling that etherial thrill, the submerged savage beneath,
     swift vengeance, eternal malice were in his whole aspect, and spite of all
     the contrast was only in shades and shadows without; those two seemed one;
     the half torn body of the Parsee was seen; his sable raiment frayed to
     the pagan harpooneers still maintained their sinking lookouts on the sea.
     the second the noon, and the third the evening and the end of that thing --be
     there, --d'ye see it? --the forged iron, men, the white whale's -- no, no, no,
     thing --a nobler thing that that.  Would now the wind but had a body; but
     three ashore.  When I think of this life I have led; the desolation of
     till you say aye to me.  Do to me as you would have me do to you in the like
     to Moby Dick.  That hazard shall not be thine.  No, no!  not with the far
     to the last letter of thy word.  Where is the second hearse?  Away, mates, to
     treble-banked his every fin; swimming with a velocity which plainly showed,
     weather stains on Ahab's head!  There's the difference now between man's old
     whole oceans away, from that young girl-wife I wedded past fifty, and
$README.;1               19
(pitchpoling) from its being likened to that preliminary up-and-down poise
+WHY THEN HERE DOES ANY ONE STEP FORTH? --+BECAUSE ONE DID SURVIVE THE WRECK. +
, THEN, AND EVER CONTRACTING TOWARDS THE BUTTON-LIKE BLACK BUBBLE AT THE AXIS
-- Take the rope, sir --I give it into thy hands, Starbuck.  Then arranging
-- What d'ye see? --sharp!  sharp!  But when three or four days had slided by,
--'tis whole again; oars!  oars!  Burst in upon him!  Hearing the tremendous
--advancing towards the hammock with uplifted hands -- may the resurrection and
--and how for forty years I have fed upon dry salted fare -- fit emblem of the
--beats it yet? --Stir thyself, Starbuck! --stave it off-- move, move!  speak
--blistered fool; this hand did dart it! --'tis in the fish! --Aloft there!
--corkscrewed in the mazes of the line, loose harpoons and lances, with all
--gone?  What means that little word? --What death-knell rings in it, that old
--it was strange, that this was the very man he should select for his watchman;
--lowering thy keel among ravening sharks, and followed by them, open-mouthed
--not gone!  But quickly they returned to him with the tidings that the Parsee
--oh, weariness!  heaviness!  Guinea-coast slavery of solitary command! --when
--that's bad; I might have known it, too.  Fool!  the lines --the harpoons
.. < chapter cxxix 2  THE CABIN >
.. < chapter cxxx 26  THE HAT >
.. < chapter cxxxi 10  THE PEQUOD MEETS THE DELIGHT >
.. < chapter cxxxii 26  THE SYMPHONY >
.. < chapter cxxxiii 2  THE CHASE--FIRST DAY >
.. < chapter cxxxiv 16  THE CHASE--SECOND DAY >
.. < epilogue / This text of Melville's Moby-Dick is based on the Hendricks
.. <p 524 >
.. <p 525 >
.. <p 526 >
.. <p 526 >
.. <p 527 >
.. <p 528 >
.. <p 529 >
.. <p 530 >
.. <p 531 >
.. <p 531 >
.. <p 532 >
.. <p 532 >
.. <p 533 >
.. <p 534 >
.. <p 535 >
.. <p 536 >
.. <p 537 >
.. <p 538 >
.. <p 539 >
.. <p 540 >
.. <p 541 >
.. <p 542 >
.. <p 542n. >
.. <p 543 >
.. <p 544 >
.. <p 545 >
.. <p 546 >
.. <p 546 >
.. <p 547 >
.. <p 548 >
.. <p 549 >
.. <p 550 >
.. <p 551 >
.. <p 552 >
.. <p 553 >
.. <p 554 >
.. <p 555 >
.. <p 555 >
.. <p 556 >
.. <p 557 >
.. <p 558 >
.. <p 559 >
.. <p 560 >
.. <p 561 >
.. <p 562 >
.. <p 563 >
.. <p 564 >
.. <p 565 >
.. <p 566 >
2  +AND +I ONLY AM ESCAPED ALONE TO TELL THEE. +JOB. +THE DRAMA'S DONE.
AINING THAT VITAL CENTRE, THE BLACK BUBBLE UPWARD BURST; AND NOW, LIBERATED
AND FLOATED BY MY SIDE. +BUOYED UP BY THAT COFFIN, FOR ALMOST ONE WHOLE DAY
AND NIGHT, +I FLOATED ON A SOFT AND DIRGE-LIKE MAIN. +THE UNHARMING SHARKS,
Ahab been!  Why this strife of the chase?  why weary,
Ahab forsaken the peaceful land, for forty years to make war on the horrors
Ahab leaned over the side, and watched how his shadow in the water sank and
Ahab shakes as if he were the belfry.  The harpoon, too! --toss over the litter
Ahab's hawser tows his purpose yet.  Believe ye, men, in the things called
Ahab's head, and reached higher than that.  In this attitude the White Whale
Ahab, cried Starbuck, not too late is it, even now, the third day, to
Ahab, less dartingly, but still rapidly was dropped from his perch.  Lower
Ahab; and Ahab still stood like an anvil, receiving every shock, but
Alike, joy and sorrow, hope and fear, seemed ground to finest dust, and
And now poor Stubb goes to bed upon a mattrass that is all too soft; would it
And now, concentric circles seized the lone boat itself, and all its crew,
And yesterday I talked the same to Starbuck there, concerning my broken
As it was, three of the oarsmen --who foreknew not the precise instant of the
BY REASON OF ITS CUNNING SPRING, AND OWING TO ITS GREAT BUOYANCY, RISING WITH
But ere I break, ye'll hear me crack; and till ye hear that, know that
But the suddenly started Pequod was not quick enough to escape the sound of
But when Ahab cried out to the steersman to take new turns with the line, and
Captain's mind, he advanced, and eyeing the wreck exclaimed -- The thistle
Come, my Captain, study out the course,
D WITH SHEATHED BEAKS. +ON THE SECOND DAY, A SAIL DREW NEAR, NEARER, AND PIC
D'ye see him?  Sing out for every spout, though he spout ten times a second!
Dick moved on, still withholding from sight the full terrors of his submerged
Directory DISK$MATIPO:[CCC.BILL.LIB.MOBY]
Diving beneath the settling ship, the whale ran quivering along its keel;
E VACANT POST; THE SAME, WHO, WHEN ON THE LAST DAY THE THREE MEN WERE TOSSED F
FRED.COM;1                1
Fate reserved the doubloon for me.  I only; none of ye could have raised the
Fedallah now; such ceaseless shudderings shook him; that the men looked
Future things swim before me, as in empty outlines and skeletons; all the
God!  God! --crack my heart!-- stave my brain! --mockery!  mockery!  bitter,
HE SUNK SHIP REACHED ME, +I WAS THEN, BUT SLOWLY, DRAWN TOWARDS THE CLOSING VO
Ha!  ha!  Suddenly the waters around them slowly swelled in broad circles;
He must be up here; let's try the door.  What?  neither lock, nor bolt, nor
He would stand still for hours: but never sat or leaned; his wan but
Here, brush this old hair aside; it blinds me, that I seem to weep.  Locks
Hither, and thither, on high, glided the snow-white wings of small,
House / edition.  It was prepared by Professor Eugene F. Irey AT THE +UNIVERSIT
How cheerily, how hilariously, O my Captain, would we bowl on our way to
I grapple with thee; from hell's heart I stab at thee; for hate's sake I
I stand in his air, --but I'm alone.  Now were even poor Pip here I could
I think of all this; only half-suspected, not so keenly known to me before
I were Adam, staggering beneath the piled centuries since Paradise.  God!
I'll slay him yet!  Great God!  but for one single instant show thyself,
IES OF THIS DATA MUST INCLUDE THIS NOTICE / AND ANY PUBLICATIONS RESULTING FRO
IT SO CHANCED, THAT AFTER THE +PARSEE'S DISAPPEARANCE, +I WAS HE WHOM THE +FA
Indian's head was almost on a level with Ahab's heel.  From this height the
Jove, not that great majesty Supreme!  did surpass the glorified White Whale
KED ME UP AT LAST. +IT WAS THE DEVIOUS-CRUISING +RACHEL, THAT IN HER RETRACIN
Leviathan of the modern railway is so familiarly known in its every pace,
Listen, and thou wilt often hear my ivory foot upon the deck, and still know
Lower me, Mr. Starbuck; lower, lower, --quick, quicker!  and he slid through
M ANALYSIS OF THIS DATA MUST INCLUDE / REFERENCE TO +PROFESSOR +IREY'S WORK.
MOBY.01;1                25
MOBY.02;1                16
MOBY.03;1                64
MOBY.04;1                19
MOBY.05;1                 9
MOBY.06;1                10
MOBY.07;1                11
MOBY.08;1                11
MOBY.09;1                40
MOBY.0;1                  5
MOBY.100;1               30
MOBY.101;1               20
MOBY.102;1               19
MOBY.103;1               11
MOBY.104;1               17
MOBY.105;1               19
MOBY.106;1               11
MOBY.107;1               13
MOBY.108;1               18
MOBY.109;1               11
MOBY.10;1                18
MOBY.110;1               25
MOBY.111;1                6
MOBY.112;1               12
MOBY.113;1               14
MOBY.114;1                8
MOBY.115;1               11
MOBY.116;1                6
MOBY.117;1                6
MOBY.118;1               11
MOBY.119;1               28
MOBY.11;1                 8
MOBY.120;1                3
MOBY.121;1                7
MOBY.122;1                1
MOBY.123;1               14
MOBY.124;1               14
MOBY.125;1               13
MOBY.126;1               15
MOBY.127;1                8
MOBY.128;1               16
MOBY.129;1                7
MOBY.12;1                10
MOBY.130;1               20
MOBY.131;1                5
MOBY.132;1               18
MOBY.133;1               41
MOBY.134;1               91
MOBY.13;1                20
MOBY.14;1                 9
MOBY.15;1                14
MOBY.16;1                61
MOBY.17;1                26
MOBY.18;1                16
MOBY.19;1                13
MOBY.20;1                11
MOBY.21;1                13
MOBY.22;1                19
MOBY.23;1                 5
MOBY.24;1                20
MOBY.25;1                 4
MOBY.26;1                14
MOBY.27;1                19
MOBY.28;1                16
MOBY.29;1                14
MOBY.30;1                 4
MOBY.31;1                 9
MOBY.32;1                60
MOBY.33;1                12
MOBY.34;1                26
MOBY.35;1                30
MOBY.36;1                32
MOBY.37;1                 6
MOBY.38;1                 5
MOBY.39;1                 3
MOBY.40;1                18
MOBY.41;1                44
MOBY.42;1                42
MOBY.43;1                 4
MOBY.44;1                24
MOBY.45;1                40
MOBY.46;1                12
MOBY.47;1                11
MOBY.48;1                45
MOBY.49;1                10
MOBY.50;1                12
MOBY.51;1                17
MOBY.52;1                 9
MOBY.53;1                19
MOBY.54;1                89
MOBY.55;1                22
MOBY.56;1                16
MOBY.57;1                12
MOBY.58;1                12
MOBY.59;1                11
MOBY.60;1                17
MOBY.61;1                23
MOBY.62;1                 7
MOBY.63;1                 6
MOBY.64;1                33
MOBY.65;1                11
MOBY.66;1                 8
MOBY.67;1                 9
MOBY.68;1                14
MOBY.69;1                 6
MOBY.70;1                11
MOBY.71;1                27
MOBY.73;1                23
MOBY.74;1                19
MOBY.75;1                14
MOBY.76;1                11
MOBY.77;1                 8
MOBY.78;1                19
MOBY.79;1                11
MOBY.80;1                11
MOBY.81;1                49
MOBY.82;1                13
MOBY.83;1                10
MOBY.84;1                10
MOBY.85;1                23
MOBY.86;1                21
MOBY.87;1                57
MOBY.88;1                15
MOBY.89;1                17
MOBY.90;1                12
MOBY.91;1                28
MOBY.92;1                11
MOBY.93;1                19
MOBY.94;1                15
MOBY.95;1                 6
MOBY.96;1                21
MOBY.97;1                 3
MOBY.98;1                12
MOBY.99;1                27
MOBY.LIS;1                0
Maccabees.  Meanwhile Ahab half smothered in the foam of the whale's insolent
Martha, laughing-eyed elves, heedlessly gambol around their old sire;
Meantime, from the beginning all this had been descried from the ship's mast
Moby Dick seemed combinedly possessed by all the angels that fell from heaven.
Mr. Starbuck.  The sails shake!  Stand over that helmsman with a top-maul!
My legs feel faint; like his who has footed it all day.  Feel thy heart,
Nantucketer;
Noah as to me.  There's a soft shower to leeward.  Such lovely leewardings!
Parsee his abandoned substance.  And yet, somehow, did Ahab --in his own proper
Parsee's glance awed his; or somehow, at least, in some wild way, at times
ROM OUT THE ROCKING BOAT, WAS DROPPED ASTERN. +SO, FLOATING ON THE MARGIN OF
RTEX. +WHEN +I REACHED IT, IT HAD SUBSIDED TO A CREAMY POOL. +ROUND AND ROUND
Rachel, weeping for her children, because they were not.
Rising with his utmost velocity from the furthest depths, the Sperm Whale
So, so; he travels fast, and I must down.  But let me have one more good
Soon that peculiar odor, sometimes to a great distance given forth by the
Starbuck drawing near, 'tis a solemn sight; an omen, and an ill one.
Starbuck is Stubb reversed, and Stubb is Starbuck; and ye two are all
Starbuck.  I am old; --shake hands with me, man.  Their hands met; their eyes
Still again both seemed yoked together, and an unseen
Stubb and Flask might not willingly overlook the sight he sought.  But if
Stubb did but speak out for well nigh all that crew.  The frenzies of the
Stubb no more strove to raise a smile; Starbuck no more strove to check one.
Stubb, showing it.  Lay it before me; --any missing men?  One, two, three,
Stubb; for Stubb, too, sticks here.  I grin at thee, thou grinning whale!
TES ORDAINED TO TAKE THE PLACE OF +AHAB'S BOWSMAN, WHEN THAT BOWSMAN ASSUMED TH
THE CHASE--THIRD DAY The morning of the third day dawned fair and fresh, and
THEY GLIDED BY AS IF WITH PADLOCKS ON THEIR MOUTHS; THE SAVAGE SEA-HAWKS SAILE
Tashtego, Queequeg, and Daggoo, eagerly mounting to the three mast-heads;
Tashtego.  In long Indian file, as when herons take wing, the white birds
Tashtego.  Not the same instant; not the same --no, the doubloon is mine,
The bluish pearl-white of the inside of the jaw was within six inches of
The day was nearly done; only the hem of his golden robe was rustling.  Soon,
The harpoon dropped from his hand.  Befooled, befooled! --drawing in a long
Then as the men went forward, he muttered on: -- The things called omens!
There again! --there again!  he cried, in long-drawn, lingering, methodic
They must lead somewhere --to something else than common land, more palmy than
They were one man, not thirty.  For as the one ship that held them all;
Thinking is, or ought to be, a coolness and a calmness; and our poor hearts
This motion is peculiar to the sperm whale.  It receives its designation
This whole act's immutably decreed. 'Twas rehearsed by thee and me a billion
Total of 137 files, 2442 blocks.
Unmindful of the tedious rope-ladders of the shrouds, the men, like shooting
Whale?  Look!  replied the hollow-cheeked captain from his taffrail; and
What's this? -- green?  aye, tiny mosses in these warped cracks.  No such green
Whatever pale fears and forebodings some of them might have felt before;
White Whale first.  There she blows!  there she blows! --there she blows!
Who ever helped Stubb, or kept Stubb awake, but Stubb's own unwinking eye?
Y / OF +COLORADO, +BOULDER, +COLORADO 80309, +U.+S.+A. / +ANY SUBSEQUENT COP
Yet the voice spake true; for scarce had he pushed from the ship, when
a black!  and crazy! --but methinks like-cures-like applies to him too; he
a boat, picked up the floating mariners, tubs, oars and whatever else could
a certain limit, such a course excludes the coming onset from the whale's
a constant watchman, the hoisted sailor should by some carelessness of the
a glass in which the contents turned to ice, and shiver it.  And still this
a little lad, but twelve years old, whose father with the earnest but
a mild, mild wind, and a mild looking sky; and the air smells now, as if it
a new-made world, and made for a summer-house to the angels, and this
a sudden rush among the remaining tangles of the other lines; by so doing,
a whole body, sir; do ye but use poor me for your one lost leg; only tread
above them so, that all their bodings, doubts, misgivings, fears, were fain
according to the observed humor of his speed; and say to themselves, so many
across, so over the old man's face there now stole some such added gloom as
acuteness at all successful in the end, the wind and the sea must be the
adrift, the three boats now stilly floated, awaiting Moby Dick's
advance of the prow: and at last disappeared; while from the point of that
advancing shower in a vale.  Aye, breach your last to the sun, Moby Dick!
advancing to the hempen basket.  We should meet him soon.  Aye, aye, sir,
affected it.  Such an added, gliding strangeness began to invest the thin
after meeting the children-seeking Rachel; and no spout had yet been seen;
after so long and wide a preliminary cruise, Ahab, --all other whaling waters
afternoon previous.  Mr. Starbuck, the ship is thine --keep away from the
again --hoping that way to disencumber it of some snarls --when lo! --a sight
again steadily swimming forward; and had almost passed the ship, --which thus
again! --drive off that hawk!  see!  he pecks --he tears the vane --pointing to
again, and let the ship sail as before.  Hurriedly turning, with averted face,
again, and swear it now, that there's something all glorious and gracious in
again, but at some further point; like as this pilot stands by his compass,
again; the third man helplessly dropping astern, but still afloat and
against its bottom, and sent it, turning over and over, into the air; till
age and matter's.  But aye, old mast, we both grow old together; sound in
ago beheld in the moonlit Atlantic and Indian Oceans.  And did none of ye see
ago! --ago!  Forty years of continual whaling!  forty years of privation, and
agony of the persuasion then!  Lower away! --cried Ahab, tossing the mate's
ahead through the horizontal vacancy between the main-top-sail and
all eyes were fastened upon him; as instead of standing by himself he still
all hands!  Thundering with the butts of three clubbed handspikes on the
all the boat-sails set --all the paddles plying; with rippling swiftness,
all the things that most exasperate and outrage mortal man, all these things
all the time; recklessly making me ready to do what in my own proper, natural
all this, he seized the long bone with his naked hands, and wildly strove to
allowing a little space for the light to spread.  see nothing, sir.  Turn
almost inside of him, as it were; and while the other boats involuntarily
almost that same instant, sir, that Captain Ahab did, and I cried out, said
aloud! --Mast-head there!  See ye my boy's hand on the hill? --Crazed; --aloft
among the Nantucket commanders; that from the simple observation of a whale
among waves whose hand-clappings were suspended by exceeding rapture, Moby
an eagle flew thrice round Tarquin's head, removing his cap to replace it,
and behind, the blue waters interchangeably flowed over into the moving valley
and concern.  Meantime, now the stranger was still beseeching his poor boon of
and each floating oar, and every lance-pole, and spinning, animate and
and feel thus intolerably old?  Close!  stand close to me, Starbuck; let me
and fro in the deeps, far down in the bottomless blue, rushed mighty
and he gazed beyond the whale's place, towards the dim blue spaces and wide
and let us away!  See, see!  the boy's face from the window!  the boy's hand
and now comes blowing hither as innocent as
and now only intent upon pursuing his own straight path in the sea.  Oh!
and palsy the arm at the oar, and the iron, and the lance?  how the richer or
and so continually bit at the plying oars, that the blades became jagged and
and straightway Starbuck did Ahab's bidding, and once more Ahab swung on high.
and striving to hold fast to the oars to lash them across.  At that preluding
and takes the precise bearing of the cape at present visible, in order the
and that her yards were swung round; starboard and larboard, she continued to
and the robust and man-like sea heaved with long, strong, lingering swells,
and then pacing the deck, binnacle-watch in hand, so soon as the last second
and then, diving down into the sea, disappeared in a boiling maelstrom, in
and thereupon Tanaquil, his wife, declared that Tarquin would be king of Rome.
and this, this then is the hearse that thou didst promise.  But I hold thee
and tilting over sideways as it slipped, the boat had shaken off his hold on
and tug, it snapped in the empty air!  What breaks in me?  Some sinew cracks!
and unyielding; his eyes glowing like coals, that still glow in the ashes of
and voicelessly as Turkish mutes bowstring their victim, he was shot out of
and was now coming for the three crews.  Ahab's boat was central; and
and when he would be reported as just gone down, Ahab would take the time,
and when the deck-ends of these ropes are being every few minutes cast down
another boat, help to work that second boat; and the chase is thus continued
appalling battle on every side; and heedless of the irons darted at him from
apparently following them in the same prescient way that vultures hover over
apparition.  Then, calling upon Fedallah to change places with him, went
are bodiless, but only bodiless as objects, not as agents.  There's a most
are not other men, but my arms and my legs; and so obey me. --Where's the
are occasions when these Nantucketers time that other Leviathan of the deep,
arm from him.  Stand by the crew!  In an instant the boat was pulling round
as Samson's chest in his sleep.
as he so divinely swam.  On each soft side --coincident with the parted swell,
as if to rally for a more tremendous charge.  Seizing that opportunity, Ahab
as in an already over-clouded sky fresh troops of clouds will sometimes sail
as in the gaseous Fata Morgana; only the uppermost masts out of water;
as the circumference to its centre.  So: God for ever bless thee; and if it
as well as his probable rate of progression during that period.  And, in these
aspect, and so planetarily swift the ever-contracting circles he made, that
assail it; but had fatally
assault.  The sight of the splintered boat seemed to madden him, as the blood
at intervals one of the cloud of soft-toed fowls hovering, and to and fro
at it, and you but run through it.  Ha!  a coward wind that strikes stark
attaching one to his basket prepared a pin for the other end, in order to
away home I see in that eye!  Oh, my Captain!  my Captain!  noble soul!
away, he cried, so soon as he had reached his boat --a spare one, rigged the
away.  Tied up and twisted; gnarled and knotted with wrinkles; haggardly firm
aye, like many more thou told'st direful truth as touching thyself, O Parsee;
baby's pulse; and lightly say of it, the up train or the down train will
band of overspreading semicircular foam before him as he rushed.  Retribution,
bar; and yet there's no opening it.  It must be the spell; he told me to
be caught at, and safely landed them on her decks.  Some sprained shoulders,
be towed by him to the infernal world?  Oh, oh, -- Impiety and blasphemy to
be, that Starbuck, almost the one only man who had ever ventured to oppose
become one watch on deck; and though the Parsee's mystic watch was without
been so long a one as before.  And still as Ahab glided over the waves the
been still another son; as that for a time, the wretched father was plunged
before me that I may yet grope my way.  Is't night?  The whale!  The ship!
before them; either standing in his pivot-hole, or exactly pacing the planks
before.  And thus, through the serene tranquillities of the tropical sea,
being chased, and diligently marked, through several hours of daylight,
bended arm -- is it safe?  Aye, sir, for it was not darted; this is it, said
beneath the boat, he could not be darted at from the bows, for the bows were
beneath the transparent skin, looked knitted together; as head on, he came
beside the pin, he looked round upon his crew, sweeping from one to the
bethinking it --it may be --a larger and nobler foe; of a sudden, he bore down
better is Ahab now?  Behold.  Oh, Starbuck!  is it not hard, that with this
better rest, the shark's jaw than the yielding water.  But at every bite,
between two
bewitching fleetness, rippling straight for the nuptial bower in Crete; not
billows of my whole foregone life, and top this one piled comber of my death!
bit of plank, the least chip or crumb of the boats touched his skin, his tail
biting mockery of grey hairs, have I lived enough joy to wear ye; and seem
blew from a far-away meadow; they have been making hay somewhere under the
blow my good ship on; these Trades, or something like them --something so
blows! --right ahead!  was now the mast-head cry.  Aye, aye!  cried Stubb.
blue air to the deck.  In due time the boats were lowered, but as standing in
blue of the sea.  The glittering mouth yawned beneath
boat up to the mark; the moment the treacherous line felt that double strain
boat's broken half, which afforded a comparatively easy float; nor did it so
boat's fragmentary
boat.  Oh!  how valiantly I seek to drive out of others' hearts what's
boat.  Only one thing could be done.  Seizing the boat-knife, he critically
boats had not gone very far, when by a signal from the mast-heads --a downward
boats, always to pick up the majority first.  But the captain, for some
boats, but keep near them.  Lower, all!  As if to strike a quick terror into
boats.  Mr. Starbuck, remember, stay on board, and keep the ship.  Helm
bobbed up and down like an empty vial, twitching his legs upwards to escape
body; so that when his vast wrinkled forehead rose --some twenty or more feet
bones feel
both elastic gunwales were springing in and out, as the whale dallied with
bow, Ahab descried the spout again, and instantly from the three mast-heads
bows full within his mouth, so that the long, narrow, scrolled lower jaw
bravadoes the White Whale tossed himself salmon-like to Heaven.  So suddenly
brave?  As fearless fire, cried Stubb.  And as mechanical, muttered Ahab.
breaches!  there she breaches!  was the cry, as in his immeasureable
breaths with keen suspense.  But at last, some three points off the weather
broad, milky forehead, a musical rippling playfully accompanying the shade;
broken ends drooping, the crew at the stern-wreck clinging to the gunwales,
burnt-out crater of his brain.  Slowly crossing the deck from the scuttle,
burst into view!  For not by any calm and indolent spoutings; not by the
bury but one of five stout men, who were alive only yesterday; but were dead
but I must go.  Mr. Starbuck, look at the binnacle watch, and in three
but one man at the fore.  The boats! --stand by!
but so fell, that, in an instant two of them clutched the gunwale again, and
but they were broken up, and on all sides routed, as timid prairie hares
but turning under water, swiftly shot to the surface again, far off the
by night or day could the mariners now step up the deck, unless Ahab was
by the braces!  Hard down the helm! --brace up!  Shiver her! --shiver her!  So;
cabin-window there; O master, my master, come back!  But Ahab heard
called shears, which, in some whaling-ships, cross the quarter-deck at the
cannot always be infallibly discerned by what is seen of them at the deck;
captains will send a son of such tender age away from them, for a protracted
case.  For you too have a boy, Captain Ahab --though but a child, and nestling
cases, somewhat as a pilot, when about losing sight of a coast, whose
central keel; even so, all the individualities of the crew, this man's
chase had by this time worked them bubblingly up, like old wine worked anew.
chase, and the resistance to his swimming in the knotted hamper he bore; or
chasing thee, though tied to thee, thou damned whale!  Thus, I give up the
cheering his men, he told them he would take the whale head-and-head, --that
churning himself into furious speed, almost in an instant as it were,
churning his tail among the boats; and once more flailed them apart;
clear it; he did clear it; but the flying turn caught him round the neck,
clinched so fast in mine! --The Parsee --the Parsee! -- gone, gone?  and he
close under the stern.  The sharks!  the sharks!  cried a voice from the low
coiled the new-hauled main-brace upon the rail.  God keep us, but already my
collateral subtile matters touching the chase of whales.  The ship tore on;
come to her, for the voyage is up.  From the ship's bows, nearly all the
come to that, -- God for ever save thee, let what will befall.
commanded them to lift him to his perch.  In this way the day wore on; Ahab,
compare with it; and I've known some ships made of dead trees outlast the
concern.  Aye!  and all splintered to pieces, Stubb! --d'ye see it. -- But
concerned the slightest verbal interchange.  At times, for longest hours,
concrete hull, which shot on its way, both balanced and directed by the long
confidential hours; when he thought no glance but one was on him; then you
conquered it?  In every fight it has the last and bitterest blow.  Run tilting
corpse's hue with despair, the Mate had stolen away.  Ahab crossed the deck
craft was cast to one side, and ran ranging along with the White Whale's
crest, he shouted, -- Sail on the whale! --Drive him off!  The Pequod's
crew be cast adrift and fall all swooping to the sea.  So Ahab's proceedings
cried Ahab -- touch not a rope-yarn; then in a voice that prolongingly
cried Ahab, thy hour and thy harpoon are at hand! --Down!  down all of ye,
cried Starbuck; never, never wilt thou capture him, old man --In Jesus' name
cried the cringing oarsmen.  Oars!  oars Slope downwards to thy depths, O
crunched, and left small splinters in the sea, at almost every dip.  Heed
curing to my malady.  Like cures like; and for this hunt, my malady becomes
curled high up into the open air, and one of the teeth caught in a row-lock.
curse into the hated whale.  As both steel and curse sank to the socket, as
czar and king, the sun seemed giving this gentle air to this bold and rolling
dam off your blood, as a miller shuts his water-gate upon the stream!  And
damp within me, and from the inside wet my flesh.  I misdoubt me that I
dance him again.  Tis my Mary, my Mary herself!  She promised that my boy,
darkness is almost as established to the sagacious mind of the hunter, as the
dart, and were therefore unprepared for its effects -- these were flung out;
day after day, and night after night; he went no more beneath the planks;
dazzlingly broke against it; vindictively tossing their shivered spray still
death on lonely life!  Oh, now I feel my topmost greatness lies in my topmost
described.  By this motion the whale must best and most comprehensively view
descried the whole fight, again came bearing down to the rescue, and dropping
descried.  As she drew nigh, all eyes were fixed upon her broad beams,
desist.  See!  Moby Dick seeks thee not.  It is thou, thou, that madly
desolate sounds from out ravines.  But this intensity of his physical
destroying billows they almost touched; --at that instant, a red arm and a
destruction he had made; and with his back to it, he now lay for a moment
die!  Cherries?  I only wish that we were where they grow.  Oh, Stubb, I
direction in which he will continue to swim for a time, while out of sight,
disabled boats.  Upon the stranger's shears were beheld the shattered, white
disappearance, a minute black spot was dimly discerned, falling from that vast
disappears.  It was even so; in their headlong eagerness, the men had
disobey my God in obeying him!  Stand by to sway me up!  cried Ahab,
dispel, for a moment, the cankerous thing in his soul.  That glad, happy air,
display
doubloon goes a-begging!  See the sun!  Aye, aye, it must be so.  I've
doubloon!  and with his own hands he rigged a nest of basketed bowlines; and
down in the billows; and at the same time slowly revolving his whole spindled
down, all of ye, but the regular look outs!  Man the braces!  Steering as
down, and left in the half-cut swaths --Starbuck!  But blanched to a
drawing nigh to some barbarous isle.  He declared that a whale must be near.
drop.  Starbuck saw the old man; saw him, how he heavily leaned over the
dry nourishment of my soul --when the poorest landsman has had fresh fruit to
dubious at him; half uncertain, as it seemed, whether indeed he were a
earthy clefts of Greenland ice or in Vesuvius lava.  How the wild winds blow
endless stairs?  and all night I've been sailing from him, wherever he did
endure it, but he's missing.  Pip!  Pip!  Ding, dong, ding!  Who's seen Pip?
entangled the slack of the three lines now fast to him, that they
epaulets all come crowding!  Pass round the decanters; glad to see ye; fill
ere night.  Only that one I bury; the rest were buried before they died;
errand-boy in heaven; nor one single star can revolve, but by some invisible
even as this, in nantucket.  they have, they have.  I have seen them --some
even in the heart of such a whirlpool as that; helpless Ahab's head was seen,
even with a broken bone, old Ahab is untouched; and I account no living bone
every boat, seemed only intent on annihilating each separate plank of which
every morning, should be carried to the hill to catch the first glimpse of
evil shadow gone --all good angels mobbing thee with warnings: --what more
evince his own unabated fortitude, and thus keep up a valiant place in his
evolutions, the White Whale so crossed and recrossed, and in a thousand ways
exhaust him as the previous day's mishap.  But when he was helped to the deck,
expectant cries.  Their vision was keener than man's; Ahab could discover no
experience, and invincible confidence acquired by some great natural geniuses
expressing them, however his actions might seem to hint them.  I will have
eye seemed to see some sort of cunning meaning in almost every sight.  Your
eyes, which it was hardly sufferable for feeble souls to see.  As the
eyes.  But in this matter of the whale, be the front of thy face to me as the
face fiercely, snuffing up the sea air as a sagacious ship's dog will, in
face the whale's head while yet under water.  But as if perceiving this
fading away from its first sparkling intensity, to the dim mistiness of an
far had been sailing in the contrary direction to him, though for the present
far other hammers seemed driving a nail into his heart.  But he rallied.  And
far out on the rocking yards; all the spars in full bearing of mortals,
fasten it at the rail.  This done, with that end yet in his hand and standing
fastened; Starbuck's tears the glue.  Oh, my captain, my captain! --noble
ferrule has not stood, sir, said the carpenter, now coming up; I put good
field.  Sleep?  Aye, and rust amid greenness; as last year's scythes flung
fiend himself is after ye!  blow your trump --blister your lungs! --Ahab will
firmaments of air and sea were hardly separable in that all-pervading azure;
first descried; and whether it was that Ahab's crew were all such
first knowledge of a whaleman's career shall be unenervated by any chance
first paid out more line: and then was rapidly hauling and jerking in upon it
flag was gone from the main-mast-head, he shouted to Tashtego, who had just
flag, half-wrapping him as with a plaid, then streamed itself straight out
flank, he seemed strangely oblivious of its advance --as the whale sometimes
flat-faced upon the sea.  Ripplingly withdrawing from his prey, Moby Dick now
fleeces.  Out upon it! --it's tainted.  Were I the wind, I'd blow no more on
flew to the rescue.  Dragged into Stubb's boat with blood-shot, blinded eyes,
flukes; dashed them together like two rolling husks on a surf-beaten beach,
fluttering over the water there, wheeling round and round, with joyous,
foot of herds of elephants.  Far inland, nameless wails came from him, as
for the earliest sun.
fore part of him slowly rose from the water; for an instant his whole
forecastle deck, Daggoo roused the sleepers with such judgment claps that
forehead I meet thee, this third time, Moby Dick!  On deck there! --brace
forehead at bay; but in that evolution, catching sight of the nearing black
forehead through the
foreshortened, and, of themselves, warped the devoted boats towards the
forward to the bows, and seizing Perth's harpoon, commanded his crew to
found that quietude but the vesture of tornadoes.  Yet calm, enticing calm,
four, five; --there were five oars, sir, and here are five men.  That's
frenzy, the boiling blood and the smoking brow, with which, for a thousand
fresh weapons for the morrow.  Meantime, of the broken keel of Ahab's wrecked
from him, as his own forward-flowing heart; while Starbuck and Stubb,
from him; the frail gunwales bent in, collapsed, and snapped, as both jaws,
from side to side strangely vibrating his predestinating head, sent a broad
from the fastenings, it would be but a natural fatality, if, unprovided with
from the whale's spout, curled round his great, Monadnock hump; he was even
from their ports, and ever afterwards are missing, Starbuck!  Truth, sir:
full of the flood; --and I feel now like a billow that's all one crested comb,
gained that perch, to descend again for another flag, and a hammer and
gathered in beads of dew upon that stone-carved coat and hat.  The clothes
gazed abroad upon the sea for miles and miles, --ahead, astern, this side, and
general trending he well knows, and which he desires shortly to return to
gleamed down upon the constant midnight of the gloomy crew.  It domineered
glimmering of the dawn, his iron voice was heard from aft -- Man the
glittered and glared like a glacier; and stood there gradually fading and
go with ye.  If thou speakest thus to me much more, Ahab's purpose keels up
gods nor men his neighbors!  Cold, cold --I shiver! --How now?  Aloft there!
going to leeward still; what a leaping spout!  Hands off from me!  The eternal
going to sound!  In stunsails!  Down top-gallant-sails!  Stand by three
good. --Help me, man; I wish to stand.  So, so, I see him!  there!  there!
grand old heart, after all!  why should any one give chase to that hated fish!
grasp their oars and stand by to stern.  Now, by reason of this timely
great hearts sometimes condense to one deep pang, the sum total of those
grief.  Ho, ho!  from all your furthest bounds, pour ye now in, ye bold
grows so sane again.  They tell me, sir, that Stubb did once desert poor
had been inflicted; now that a vessel had been spoken which on the very day
had followed the main-truck downwards from its natural home among the stars,
hair is growing now; this moment growing, and heat must breed it; but no,
half-hung upon the shoulder of Starbuck, who had thus far been the foremost
half-unhinged, and bleaching skeleton of a horse.  Hast seen the White
halloo of thirty buckskin lungs was heard, as --much nearer to the ship than
hammer hovered backwardly uplifted in the open air, in the act of nailing the
hammer.  Oh!  ye three unsurrendered spires of mine; thou uncracked keel; and
hammered against the opposing bow.  Drive, drive in your nails, oh ye waves!
hand the cup!  Oh, oh!  oh, oh!  thou grinning whale, but there'll be plenty
hand to the fore-mast head, and see it manned till morning. --Then advancing
hands.  Now, the first time Ahab was perched aloft; ere he had been there ten
happening to the whale-boats in those swarming seas; the sharks at times
hat was never restored; the wild hawk flew on and on with it; far in
hat, your hat, sir!  suddenly cried the Sicilian seaman, who being posted at
have been deceived; not moby dick casts one odd jet that way, and then
he leaned over the rail, he hailed him to turn the vessel about, and follow
he left.  With oars apeak, and paddles down, the sheets of their sails
he raised a gull-like cry in the air, There she blows! --there she blows!  A
he seemed horizontally swooping upon them.  And though the other boats,
he stood, however the days and nights were added on, that he had not swung
he'll rise once more, --but only to spout his last!  D'ye feel brave men,
he's towing.  Aye, aye, I have run him by last night.  About!  about!  Come
head.  But with his gaze fixed upon the dim and distant horizon, Ahab seemed
heads; and squaring her yards, she had borne down upon the scene; and was
hearse!  cried ahab from the boat; its wood could only be American!
heart --go not --go not! -- see, it's a brave man that weeps; how great the
heart to save and to bless.  From beneath his slouched hat Ahab dropped a tear
heart, I durst not so much as dare?  Is Ahab, Ahab?  Is it I, God, or who,
heart.  This
hearts, though summary in each one suffering; still, if the gods decree it,
heaven it cannot be! --missing? -- quick!  call them all.  The old man's hinted
heaven this dead wood has the better of my live flesh every way.  I can't
height into the sea.
height of eight or nine feet; serving to carry the spare, unrigged, or
held on his way a little sideways from the vessel; the becharmed crew
heliotrope glance anticipatingly gone backward on its dial; sat due eastward
helm again!  He turns to meet us!  Oh, his unappeasable brow drives on towards
helped him forward to the bows of the still flying boat.  At length as the
her headway had been stopped.  He seemed swimming with his utmost velocity,
her still halting course and winding, woful way, you plainly saw that this
her three masts before me.  Here, our old sailors say, in their black
here in this hand I hold his death!  Tempered in blood, and tempered by
high-lifted to the poise, he darted his fierce iron, and his far fiercer
higher into the air.  So, in a gale, the but half-baffled Channel billows only
him at the next rising, he
him by the hand to follow.) Lad, lad, I tell thee thou must not follow Ahab
him with anything in the slightest degree approaching to decision --one of
him, not too swiftly, at a judicious interval.  Glancing upwards, he saw
him, or be noticed by him, he yet drew near to him, and stood there.  Ahab
himself, sounded, and went out of sight.  Hoveringly halting, and dipping on
his back, in the manner of a biting shark, slowly and feelingly taking its
his chief mate's instinctively adopting the ordinary procedure of a whale-ship
his daily hand, and broken the world's fresh bread to my mouldy crusts --away,
his enchantment, Gardiner silently hurried to the side; more fell than
his eyes the receding boat -- canst thou yet ring boldly to that sight?
his face to the sky.  Nothing, nothing, sir!  was the sound hailing down in
his father's sail!  Yes, yes!  no more!  it is done!  we head for Nantucket!
his hat, stood there till dawn, except when at intervals rousing himself to
his high sparkling hump, and regularly jetting his silent spout into the air.
his level, and with a deep gulf of air dividing them.  But already the sable
his nigh flank against the bow, and, without staving a hole in it, so
his person in the basket, he gave the word for them to hoist him to his
his shallop's stern, Ahab just hovered upon the point of the descent, he
his steering oar, Ahab whirled the craft aside from this tremendous
hither and thither at every dark spot, however small, on the sea.  This way
hoist a sail still higher, or to spread one to a still greater breadth --thus
hoisted to the side, and were busily at work in repairing them.  One after
hold for the time; at that moment his hand had made one final effort to push
hold it so; and commanded the crew to turn round on their seats, and tow the
hope my poor mother's drawn my part-pay ere this; if not, few coppers will now
hope to escape.  With straining eyes, then, they remained on the outer edge
hours hence this whale will have gone two hundred miles, will have about
hovered for a moment in the rainbowed air; and then fell swamping back into
hull of the ship; seemingly seeing in it the source of all his persecutions;
hull, maliciously snapped at the blades of the oars, every time they dipped
hump like a snow-hill!  It is Moby Dick!  Fired by the cry which seemed
hunt him more!  Starbuck, of late I've felt strangely moved to thee; ever
if sucked into a morass, Moby Dick sideways writhed; spasmodically rolled
igniting velocity the line ran through the groove; --ran foul.  Ahab stooped to
immortal infancy, and innocency of the azure!  Invisible winged creatures
impelled to leeward, by both oars and canvas.  And at last when Ahab was
in him.  I tell thee no; it cannot be.  Oh good master, master, master!
in his death-gasp, kept his hammer frozen there; and so the bird of heaven,
in his hammock; yet hidden beneath that slouching hat, they could never tell
in strict charge to some one man who has the special watch of it.  Because in
in such emergencies, that is, when placed between jeopardized but divided
in the complete and careful rigging of the spare boats and sharpening their
in the rope's final end flew out of the stark-empty tub, knocked down an
in the scuttle for a whole hour on the stretch, and the unheeded night-damp
in the water; and in this
in their life-time aggregate a whole age of woe, wholly made up of
in this matter were not unusual; the only strange thing about them seemed to
in working with his hands at some lofty almost isolated place in the rigging,
inaccessible being.  Can any lead touch yonder floor, any mast scrape yonder
inanimate, all round and round in one vortex, carried the smallest chip of
inches of the erect spar yet visible, together with long streaming yards of
incommodiously close round the manned mast-heads of whalemen in these
indeed, but that some of the flying bubbles might have sprinkled her hull with
indefinitely prolonged, if not a hopeless one; nor could any crew endure for
indifference with which the white whale tore his hunters, whether sinning or
inextricable intricacies of rope; shattered oars and planks; all these were
infallible wake, though; but follow that wake, that's all.  Helm there;
infinite blueness to seek out the thing that might destroy them!  Why sing ye
instant, Tashtego's mast-head hammer remained suspended in his hand; and the
instantaneous intensities; for even in their pointless centres, those noble
instantaneous swiftness, the White Whale darted through the weltering sea.
intent, by the crafty upraising of his head, a movement that loosed his
intermission as his own; yet these two never seemed to speak --one man to the
into oneness, and were all directed to that fatal goal which Ahab their one
into the sea.
into the sea; and was all fast again.  That instant, the White Whale made
into the sea; nor did all the pacific contain such wealth as that one wee
involved wrinkles of the slightly projecting head beyond.  Before it, far out
irresistibly dragged the more involved boats of Stubb and Flask towards his
is often the case that when a boat is stove, its crew, being picked up by
is that man's; and if on that day I shall again raise him, then, ten times
is the magic glass, man; I see my wife and my child in thine eye.  No, no;
is, pull straight up to his forehead, --a not uncommon thing; for when within
it before?  cried Ahab, hailing the perched men all around him.  I saw him
it fell again --gunwale downwards --and Ahab and his men struggled out from
it rolled five thousand years ago.
it was almost dark, but the look-out men still remained unset.  Can't see
it was only the sex, as it were, that distinguished them.  Aloft, like a royal
it's like that sort of common grass that will grow anywhere, between the
it; but I shall let it abide here till the White Whale is dead; and then,
it; let Stubb die in his drawers!  A most mouldy and over salted death,
it; they whip it about me as the torn shreds of split sails lash the tossed
its sum shall be divided among all of ye!  Away now! --the deck is thine, sir.
ivory --Oh, master, master!  I am indeed down-hearted when you walk over me.
jaw!  Is this the end of all my bursting prayers?  all my life-long fidelities?
jeopardized castaways, Ahab and all; nor in that case could they themselves
just as soon as he.  The whale, the whale!  Up helm, up helm!  Oh, all ye
keep her full before the wind! --Aloft!  come down! --Mr. Stubb, send a fresh
keep him nailed --quick! --all hands to the rigging of the boats --collect the
lance; propped up on a lonely foot. 'Tis Ahab --his body's part; but Ahab's
lances.  As he saw all this; as he heard the hammers in the broken boats;
last encounter had been but a stage in his leeward voyage, Moby Dick was now
last seen?  As before, sir, --straight to leeward.  Good!  he will travel
latitudes; one of these birds came wheeling and screaming round his head in a
launched him along it, to a little distance from the centre of the
lay at a little distance, vertically thrusting his oblong white head up and
lean breath -- Aye, Parsee!  I see thee again. --Aye, and thou goest before;
leaner who he will; and would old Ahab had leaned oftener than he has.  The
leaves me so deadly calm, yet expectant, --fixed at the top of a shudder!
leaving such a furrow in the sea as when a cannon-ball, missent, becomes a
leeward wake of Moby Dick.  At the well known, methodic intervals, the
lengthwise ahead, smooth as oil, and resembling in the pleated watery
let's drink shame upon all cowards!  I name no names.  Shame upon them!  Put
level with the waves; its half-wading, splashing crew, trying hard to stop
levelled iron from the crotch, Ahab held it out, exclaiming -- Look ye,
leviathans, sword-fish, and sharks; and these were the strong, troubled,
lid; and no coffin and no hearse can be mine: --and hemp only can kill me!
lightly swung; and another ship, most miserably misnamed the Delight, was
lightning are these barbs; and I swear to temper them triply in that hot
like an enormous shears, sliding further aft, bit the craft completely in
like heaps of fountains, then brokenly sank in a shower of flakes, leaving
like the double-jointed wings of an albatross; the Pequod bore down in the
line-tubs, oars, and other floating furniture, while aslope little Flask
lit up Fedallah's sunken eyes; a hideous motion gnawed his mouth.  Like
little Pip, whose drowned bones now show white, for all the blackness of his
lives of men made of the most vital stuff of vital fathers.  What's that he
living skin.  But I will never desert ye, sir, as Stubb did him.  Sir, I must
living sperm whale, was palpable to all the watch; nor was any mariner
living, and not I. By heaven, man, we are turned round and round in this
lo!  that smiling sky, and this unsounded sea!  Look!  see yon Albicore!  who
longitude where his tormenting wound
look into a human eye; it is better than to gaze into sea or sky; better
lord and keel did point to.  The rigging lived.  The mast-heads, like the tops
lovings and longings, I so keep pushing, and crowding, and jamming myself on
lowerings old Ahab has furiously, foamingly chased his prey --more a demon
machines, they dumbly moved about the deck, ever conscious that the old
main-mast head, he received the two ends of the downward-reeved rope; and
maintaining the profoundest silence, as the head-beat waves hammered and
man!  Who's to doom, when the judge himself is dragged to the bar?  But it is
man's despot eye was on them.  But did you deeply scan him in his more secret
mane; in some cases, this breaching is his act of defiance.  There she
mankind; and Ahab stands alone among the millions of the peopled earth, nor
marbleized body formed a high arch, like Virginia's Natural Bridge, and
margin of the sky, the spray that he raised, for the moment, intolerably
mariner is the skill that assures him he is exactly ninety-three leagues and a
mast-heads were punctually manned afresh.  D'ye see him?  cried Ahab, after
mast-heads! --and all through the day, till after sunset and after twilight,
master, and cruel, remorseless emperor commands me; that against all natural
matter --'tis but resting for the rush.  Here be it said, that this
matter how many in that same way thou may'st have bejuggled and destroyed
maze of untrackably swift circlings.  Then it darted a thousand feet straight
me, men.  Ye see an old man cut down to the stump; leaning on a shivered
me, spine-wise, on the sea, --for by live-oaks!  my spine's a keel.  Ha, ha!
me; boy!  I seem to see but thy eyes grown wondrous blue.  Strangest problems
mechanically retained in their hands, just as they had darted from their
meetings with various ships contrastingly concurred to show the demoniac
mightiest Mississippies of the land swift and swerve about, uncertain where
mighty mildness of repose in swiftness, invested the gliding whale.  Not the
mild looking sky.  On such a day --very much such a sweetness as this --I
million villains, this makes me a bigot in the fadeless fidelity of man! --and
minutes from this present instant warn off all strangers: then brace forward
minutes since the first cry, no more had been heard.  Sway me up, men; ye
minutes; one of those red-billed savage sea-hawks which so often fly
mistaken some other thing for the whale-spout, as the event itself soon
moment a breaking sea dashed on him from Moby Dick, and whelmed him for the
moment, ere the boat was yet snapped, Ahab, the first to perceive the whale's
monomaniac Ahab, furious with this tantalizing vicinity of his foe, which
more certainly to hit aright the remote, unseen headland, eventually to be
more savage than the embattled teeth of sharks!  Caught and twisted
more.  In those moments, the torn, enraged waves he shakes off, seem his
morning the first of its throwing open to them, a fairer day could not dawn
morning; he's making a passage now, and may heave-to a while.  Helm there!
mortal man!  to think's audacity.  God only has that right and privilege.
mortal substance, or else a tremulous shadow cast upon the deck by some
moulded every word -- Captain Gardiner, I will not do it.  Even now I lose
mountain of dazzling foam, shows his place to the distance of seven miles and
mouth and scrolled jaw; his vast, shadowed bulk still half blending with the
much, it being no uncommon circumstance; only now almost the least heedful
murderous thinkings of the masculine sea.  But though thus contrasting within,
must, in a woman's fainting fit.  Up helm, I say --ye fools, the jaw!  the
my most desired health.  Do thou abide below here, where they shall serve
nails, and so nail it to the mast.  Whether fagged by the three days' running
naked men, but will not stand to receive a single blow.  Even Ahab is a braver
nameless, inscrutable, unearthly thing is it; what cozzening, hidden lord and
natures contain the entire circumferences of inferior souls.
nearly as on the previous night; only, the sound of hammers, and the hum of
necessary.  Though such a potent spell seemed secretly to join the twain;
neck, and did seem to joyously sob over him, as if over one, that however
negro lad, five feet high,  hang-dog look, and cowardly!  Jumped from a
never thinks; he only feels, feels, feels; that's tingling enough for
never touched; nor reaped his beard; which darkly grew all gnarled, as
new-mown hay.  Sleeping?  Aye, toil we how we may, we all sleep at last on the
night before, slouched Ahab stood fixed within his scuttle; his hid,
night, and through night into day, is a thing by no means unprecedented in
night, even, had Fedallah ever certainly been known to slumber, or go below.
no more of this, that's worse than devil's madness.  Two days chased; twice
no; only black water!  All ready the boats there?  Stand by, stand by!
noiseless nautilus shells, their light prows sped through the sea; but only
nor man, nor fiend, can so much as graze old Ahab in his own proper and
not have thee by him.  There is that in thee, poor lad, which I feel too
not out for him, if ye see him?  cried Ahab, when, after the lapse of some
not to mark this wild bird; nor, indeed, would any one else have marked it
not yet forged that will ever do that, answered the other, sadly glancing
nothing; for his own voice was high-lifted then; and the boat leaped on.
now aloft and motionless; anon, unrestingly pacing the planks.  As he was thus
now being pointed in the reverse direction, the braced ship sailed hard upon
now freshened; the sea began to swell.  The birds! --the birds!  cried
now gained his final perch, some feet above the other look-outs, Tashtego
now marking that the vane or
now shook the slight cedar as a mildly cruel cat her mouse.  With unastonished
now so nigh, that Ahab in the water hailed her; -- Sail on the --but that
now.  The hour is coming when Ahab would not scare thee from him, yet would
now?  D'ye see him?  and if the reply was, No, sir!  straightway he
number of the other boat's crews, at the same time, but on the other hand,
numbers of sharks, seemingly rising from out the dark waters beneath the
oars --harpooneers!  the irons, the irons! -- hoist the royals higher --a pull
oarsman, and smiting the sea, disappeared in its depths.  For an instant,
obliquely from the sea.  Shrouded in a thin drooping veil of mist, it
ocean, and trailing after him the intertangled lines, continued his leeward
of Stubb and Flask, busying themselves on deck among bundles of new irons and
of a father's natural but untimely partiality, or undue apprehensiveness
of cannibal old me; how I am abroad upon the deep, but will yet come back to
of captains and lieutenants.  Ha!  what's this?  epaulets!  epaulets!  the
of grapes and mulberries cast before Antiochus's elephants in the book of
of gulping soon!  Why fly ye not, O Ahab!  For me, off shoes and jacket to
of heaven along with her, and helmeted herself with it.  Now small fowls flew
of his steady wake; and on either hand bright bubbles arose and danced by his
of life seem clearing; but clouds sweep between --Is my journey's end coming?
of mine one jot more me, than this dead one that's lost.  Nor white whale,
of nearly all except the Pagan harpooneers; he seemed to doubt, even, whether
of overtaking the chase.  Accordingly, the boats now made for her, and were
of tall palms, were outspreadingly tufted with arms and legs.  Clinging to a
of the allotted hour expired, his voice was heard. -- Whose is the doubloon
of the boat did not equal the added power of the whale, for he seemed to have
of the daylight look-outs, who dotted every mast and almost every spar.
of the deep!  Aye and yes, Starbuck, out of those forty years I have not spent
of the direful zone, whose centre had now become the old man's head.
of the sharks --a matter sometimes well known to affect them, --however it was,
of the whale-lance, in the exercise called pitchpoling, previously
of the whole line of judges: --like a hawk's beak it pecks my brain.  I'll,
off from the last fond pride of meanest shipwrecked captains?  Oh, lonely
oh, whale!  thou glidest on, to all who for the first time eye thee, no
omens?  Then laugh aloud, and cry encore!  For ere they drown, drowning things
on all the sheets! --helm there!  steady, steady for your life!  I'll ten
on the hill!  But Ahab's glance was averted; like a blighted fruit tree he
on the soft Turkish-rugged waters, went the glistening white shadow from his
on the whale or on ahab? --But pull on!  Aye, all alive, now --we near him.  The
once more the solitary night-man at the fore-mast-head was relieved by crowds
one foot upon the table.  Shame upon all cowards. --Hist!  above there, I hear
one side of the upper part of their bows, but leaving Ahab's almost without a
one, whose duty tells him he cannot depart.  My God, stand by me now!
only god-bullied hull; thou firm deck, and haughty helm, and Pole-pointed
only, the pensive air was transparently pure and soft, with a woman's look,
open air; that is, his two only meals, -- breakfast and dinner: supper he
openly, and to the awe-struck crew, they seemed pole-like asunder.  If by day
other --unless at long intervals some passing unmomentous matter made it
other bow, but within a few yards of Ahab's boat, where, for a time, he lay
other drifting end, could not succor him; more than enough was it for them
other; as if in the Parsee Ahab saw his forethrown shadow, in Ahab the
other; pausing his glance long upon Daggoo, Queequeg, Tashtego; but shunning
others, shading their eyes from the vivid sunlight, sat
our hulls, though, are we not, my ship?  Aye, minus a leg, that's all.  By
out of the water --the now rising swells, with all their confluent waves,
oversailed him.  How, got the start?  Aye, he's chasing me now; not I, him
palm of this hand --a lipless, unfeatured blank.  Ahab is for ever Ahab, man.
parted the white whale from his victim.  As he sullenly swam off, the boats
past is somehow grown dim.  Mary, girl!  thou fadest in pale glories behind
past night's suspense; the fixed, unfearing, blind, reckless way in which
paternal old age!  Away!  let us away! --this instant let me alter the course!
pause.  Starbuck!  Sir?  For the third time my soul's ship starts upon
paused, as before a quick crisis impossible to withstand, then it was that
peaceable gush of that mystic fountain in his head, did the White Whale now
pecking at the flag, and incommoding Tashtego there; this bird now chanced
perch, Starbuck being the one who secured the rope at last; and afterwards
peril, and storm-time!  forty years on the pitiless sea!  for forty years has
perpendicularly from the sea, the White Whale dashed his broad forehead
pertinacious pursuit of one particular whale, continued through day into
pile on the sail again, ship keepers!  down the rest of the spare boats and
pillow --wife?  wife? --rather a widow with her husband alive!  Aye, I widowed
pilot's coast is to him.  So that to this hunter's wondrous skill, the
place behind the fin, where the white whale most feels his accursed life!
place the plank then on the rail, and lift the body; so, then -- Oh!  God
placed him all alive and helpless in the very jaws he hated; frenzied with
plank and each rib, it thrilled for an instant, the whale obliquely lying on
planted irons in him; though now for a moment the whale drew aside a little,
pleated head lengthwise beneath the boat.  Through and through; through every
plough-share and turns up the level field.  By salt and hemp!  cried Stubb,
pointed arm, Ahab knew that the whale had sounded; but intending to be near
points, came flashing and dripping up to the chocks in the bows of Ahab's
pole, the long tail feathers streaming like pennons.  A gentle joyousness --a
poltroon.  Groan nor laugh should be heard before a wreck.  Aye, sir, said
pool!  and since neither can be mine, let me then tow to pieces, while still
pour, as mountain torrents down a flume.  The ship!  The hearse! --the second
powdered, for the time, in the clamped mortar of ahab's iron soul.  like
preceding had actually encountered Moby Dick; --and now that all his successive
previously secured by her --and then hoisting everything to her side, and
prison corridors and cells, and wards of hospitals, and ventilated them,
profoundly saw a white living spot no bigger than a white weasel, with
profundity.  But the lovely aromas in that enchanted air did at last seem to
prostration did but so much the more abbreviate it.  In an instant's compass,
proved; for hardly had Ahab reached his perch; hardly was the rope belayed
proverbial evanescence of a thing writ in water, a wake, is to all desired
prow, --death-glorious ship!  must ye then perish, and without me?  Am I cut
prows were pointed; and breaking up the charmed circle, she effectually
pull on! --But who can tell --he muttered -- whether these sharks swim to feast
pulling into the creamy pool to rescue whom he could; --in that wild
purposes well nigh as reliable as the steadfast land.  And as the mighty iron
put it into him to chase and fang that flying-fish?  Where do murderers go,
quarter from his port?  Inferable from these statements, are many
quiescent.  I turn my body from the sun.  What ho, Tashtego!  Let me hear thy
rapidly ordered the ship's course to be slightly altered, and the sail to be
reach such or such a spot, at such or such an hour; even so, almost, there
reached this or that degree of latitude or longitude.  But to render this
reached within --through --and then, without --the rays of steel; dragged in
ready and ripe for their fate.  Ah!  how they still strove through that
reappearance.  An hour, said Ahab, standing rooted in his boat's stern;
recoil from the base of the Eddystone, triumphantly to overleap its summit
red
reply.  T'gallant sails! --stunsails!  alow and aloft, and on both sides!  All
return to me; if not, Ahab is enough to die --Down, men!  the first thing
reveal his vicinity; but by the far more wondrous phenomenon of breaching.
reversed; broken bow to shattered stern.  At last he paused before it; and
ribs, and some few splintered planks, of what had once been a whale-boat; but
rig them --Mr. Starbuck away, and muster the boat's crews.  Let me first help
rigging to behold the famous whale they had so long been pursuing.  Ahab had
rising to its level on a combing wave, hurled themselves bodily inboard
roof? -- Aloft there!  which way?  Dead to leeward, sir.  Up helm, then;
round look aloft here at the sea; there's time for that.  An old, old sight,
round to the fish's back; pinioned in the turns upon turns in which, during
round, like the grated nutmeg in a swiftly stirred bowl of punch.  While the
ruin; untottering Ahab stood forth in the clearness of the morn; lifting his
rush of the sea-crashing boat, the whale wheeled round to present his blank
rushing among the boats with open jaws, and a lashing tail, offered
saddest truth.  Some men die at ebb tide; some at low water; some at the
safely at home now --a child of your old age too -- Yes, yes, you relent; I
said?  he should still go before me, my pilot; and yet to be seen again?  But
sail being set, he now cast loose the life-line, reserved for swaying him to
sailed for Cape Horn the next day, leaving but one dent in my marriage
sailed on; the rolling waves and days went by; the life-buoy-coffin still
sailors were busy in sewing together.  Not forged!  and snatching Perth's
sails, and rushed the vessel on by arms invisible as irresistible; this
sank to his gaze, the more and the more that he strove to pierce the
sap runs up in Ahab's bones again!  Set the sail; out oars; the helm!  It
satisfied that his work for that time was done, he pushed his pleated
save my ship?  But as the oarsmen violently forced their boat through the
scar.  While Daggoo and Queequeg were stopping the strained planks; and as
scream, the black hawk darted away with his prize.
screaming over the yet yawning gulf; a sullen white surf beat against its
screwed chair; another screw to it, thou must be.  No, no, no!  ye have not
scuttle, the Parsee by the mainmast; but still fixedly gazing upon each
sea, that ere it be for ever too late, Ahab may slide this last, last time
sea; even as bride to groom.  And at the girdling line of the horizon, a
seamen now hung inactive; hammers, bits of plank, lances, and harpoons,
seat me, against the transom, in the ship's full middle, all her keel and
securely there; now, that he found himself hard by the very latitude and
see how the night wore on.
see it --run, run, men, now, and stand by to square in the yards.  Avast,
see old Nantucket again!  I think, sir, they have some such mild blue days,
seekest him!  Setting sail to the rising wind, the lonely boat was swiftly
seemed drawn up towards Heaven by invisible wires, --as, arrow-like, shooting
seemed the symbol of that unseen agency which so enslaved them to the race.
seemed whirling round in his head as he swept the watery circle.  The breeze
seemingly unsuspecting prey, that his entire dazzling hump was distinctly
seen in the blue plain of the sea, and relieved against the still bluer
self, as daily, hourly, and every instant, commandingly revealed to his
sending a hand aloft, with a single sheaved block, to secure to the
separated from the ship during the dark vicissitudes of the chase, there had
serenely it spread.  At length the breathless hunter came so nigh his
set in a revolving ring of finest, fleecy, greenish foam.  He saw the vast,
seventy-fours great admirals sometimes sit at table, and lord it over rows
shallow pains kindly diffused through feebler men's whole lives.  And so, such
sharks that had been observed by the Pequod since the White Whale had been
sharp splinter.  Aye, aye, Starbuck, 'tis sweet to lean sometimes, be the
sharper up; crowd her into the wind's eye.  He's too far off to lower yet,
shattered pole of a recent lance projected from the white whale's back; and
she had done, the wind had been somewhat on the Pequod's quarter, so that
ship and I are two brave fellows! --Ha!  ha!  Some one take me up, and launch
ship that so wept with spray, still remained without comfort.  She was
ship they cling to.  A vile wind that has no doubt blown ere this through
shivered lance will do.  Muster the men.  Surely I have not seen him yet.  By
shook on their bull-like necks.  Through the breach, they heard the waters
shook, and cast his last, cindered apple to the soil.  What is it, what
shooting to leeward; and Ahab heading the onset.  A pale, death-glimmer
shortened.  The acute policy dictating these movements was sufficiently
shot by them again; at that moment a quick cry went up.  Lashed round and
shreds; his distended eyes turned full upon old Ahab.
side.  But these were broken again by the light toes of hundreds of gay fowl
side; and he seemed to hear in his own true heart the measureless sobbing
sidelingly transplanted himself, as it were, in an instant, shooting his
sidelong fading phantom,
sidelong vision.  But ere that close limit was gained, and while yet all
sign in the sea.  But suddenly as he peered down and down into its depths, he
simultaneously taken up by the three look-outs, the men on deck rushed to the
simultaneousness of a thousand concreted perils, --Ahab's yet unstricken boat
since that hour we both saw --thou know'st what, in one another's
sink to.  Aye,
sinned against; now it was that there lurked a something in the old man's
sir, the thin blades grow smaller and smaller!  They will last long enough!
skimming like a canopy over the fish, silently perched and rocked on this
sledge-hammering seas, the before whale-smitten bow-ends of two planks burst
sliding by the vessel, so near as plainly to distinguish Starbuck's face as
slopes of the Andes, Starbuck, and the mowers are sleeping among the
slower now 'tis night.  Down royals and
slowly feeling with his flukes from side to side; and whenever a stray oar,
slowly they neared the foe.  As they neared him, the ocean grew still more
smooth; seemed drawing a carpet over its waves; seemed a noon-meadow, so
smote the ship's starboard bow, till men and timbers reeled.  Some fell flat
so grey did never grow but from out some ashes!  But do I look very old, so
so long a period, such an unintermitted, intense straining at the oar; a
so long cruel -- forbidding --now threw affectionate arms round his stubborn
so rapidly nearing him once more; though indeed the whale's last start had not
soft and tremulous motion --most seen here at the equator --denoted the fond,
softly feathering the sea, alternate with their fitful flight; and like to
solitude it has been; the masoned, walled-town of a Captain's exclusiveness,
some flag-staff rising from the painted hull of an argosy, the tall but
soon swayed up to their cranes --the two parts of the wrecked boat having been
soul's a centipede, that moves upon a hundred legs.  I feel strained, half
soulless thing is this that laughs before a wreck?  Man, man!  did I not know
spar with one hand, some reached forth the other with impatient wavings;
spear!  The harpoon was darted; the stricken whale flew forward; with
special, a most cunning, oh, a most malicious difference!  And yet, I say
spilling out the irons and lances from the two mates' boats, and dashing in
spinning round the boat upon its axis, its bow, by anticipation, was made to
spit my last breath at thee.  Sink all coffins and all hearses to one common
splintered helmet of a brow to the fair girl's forehead of heaven.  Oh,
sporting with the circle of singed locks which grew on the marge of that
spot, and sustained there by
stacking her canvas high up, and sideways outstretching it with stun-sails,
staggered; his hand smote his forehead.  I grow blind; hands!  stretch out
standing in the cabin-scuttle, --his living foot advanced upon the deck, as if
standing just beneath him on the cap of the top-gallant mast, so that the
standing upon the bowsprit beneath, caught sight of the down-coming monster
stars, slid to the deck, by the isolated back-stays and halyards; while
stay here: Aye, and told me this screwed chair was mine.  Here, then, I'll
stay on board, on board! --lower not when I do; when branded Ahab gives chase
steady, as thou goest, and hast been going.  What a lovely day again; were it
steep sides; then all collapsed, and the great shroud of the sea rolled on as
stepped into his boat, and returned to his ship.  Soon the two ships diverged
stern, Fedallah incuriously and mildly eyed him; the clinging crew, at the
stood near it.  And thus, with one hand clinging round the royal mast, Ahab
stove to splinters; thy very leg once more snatched from under thee; thy
straight on, in strong and steadfast, vigorous mildness; and veer not from
stranded, as ropes that tow dismasted frigates in a gale; and I may look so.
strange life-buoy hanging at the Pequod's stern came into conspicuous relief.
strategem, moby dick, with that malicious intelligence ascribed to him,
strength did crack, and helplessly he yielded to his body's doom: for a
strike, lest that should be the signal for the instant destruction of the
struck my first whale --a boy-harpooneer of eighteen!  Forty-- forty--forty years
subordinates, --Ahab seemed an independent lord; the Parsee but his slave.
subterraneous hum; and then all held their breaths; as bedraggled with
such a wicked, miserable world.  I'd crawl somewhere to a cave, and slink
such a wilderness of running rigging, whose various different relations aloft
suddenly canted the boat over, that had it not been for the elevated part of
summer days in the morning.  About this time --yes, it is his noon nap now --
sun, moon, and stars!  I call ye assassins of as good a fellow as ever spouted
sundering the rope near the chocks --dropped the intercepted fagot of steel
surprised when, after inspecting the compass, and then the dog-vane, and
sustains its piercing, steady, central gaze; so Ahab's purpose now fixedly
sweet powers of air, now hug me close!  Let not Starbuck die, if die he
swept --seemed to have chased his foe into an ocean-fold, to slay him the more
swiftly drew back, and came sideways smiting the sea.  But soon, as if
swiftly rising to the surface.  A low rumbling sound was heard; a
swiftly round and round the wrecked crew; sideways churning the water in his
swimming.  Almost simultaneously, with a mighty volition of ungraduated,
tack; now she beat against a head sea; and again it pushed her before it;
tail, and too much of a cripple to swim, --though he could still keep afloat,
teeth, floating up from the undiscoverable bottom.  It was Moby Dick's open
than a man! --aye, aye!  what a forty years' fool --fool --old fool, has old
than to gaze upon God.  By the green land; by the bright hearth-stone!  this
that I am there.  And now I quit thee.  Thy hand! --Met!  True art thou, lad,
that but offers to jump from this boat I stand in, that thing I harpoon.  Ye
that but once leaving him, then flowed so wide away --on each bright side,
that end what it may.  Oh!  my God!  what is this that shoots through me, and
that frolic all round us!  Sweet childhood of air and sky!  how oblivious were
that if now, under these circumstances, pushed on, the chase would prove an
that lifts this arm?  But if the great sun move not of himself; but is as an
that mortal man could do, the solid white buttress of his forehead
that poor girl when I married her, Starbuck; and then, the madness, the
that scatter before the bounding bison.  The hand of Fate had snatched all
that stole out of the centre of the serenity around.  Careful not to touch
that the night had wet, the next day's sunshine dried upon him; and so,
that the unconquerable captain in the soul should have such a craven mate!
that winsome sky, did at last stroke and caress him; the step-mother world,
that, --within the wide expanded circle commanded at so great a height.  When
that, with watches in their hands, men time his rate as doctors that of a
that? --There's a riddle now might baffle all the lawyers backed by the ghosts
the Pequod out of sight.  But as the last whelmings intermixingly poured
the South sea fishery.  For such is the wonderful skill, prescience of
the air to the deck.  He is heading straight to leeward, sir, cried Stubb,
the air vibrate as with the combined discharges of rifles.  The triumphant
the ass refused; it pricked his mouth too keenly, sir; ha!  ha!  What
the banners of marching regiments in the east.  But these were the first
the better if the bitterer quarter.  But good bye, good bye, old mast-head!
the boat like an open-doored marble tomb; and giving one side-long sweep with
the boat out of the bite.  But only slipping further into the whale's mouth,
the boat, ere the crew knew he was gone.  Next instant, the heavy eye-splice
the boy vivaciously wakes; sits up in bed; and his mother tells him of me,
the breeze as she rechurned the cream in her own white wake.  Against the
the circling surface creamed like new milk round the marble trunk of the
the deep.  Crushed thirty feet upwards, the waters flashed for an instant
the destiny of all his race.  Nor does it unfrequently occur, that Nantucket
the doomed craft in this devilish way; and from his body being submerged
the dreaded jaws of sharks; and Stubb was lustily singing out for some one
the first sight of the whale myself, --he said.  Aye!  Ahab must have the
the flag, which calmly undulated, with ironical coincidings, over the
the gap and bale out the pouring water.  Meantime, for that one beholding
the grindstone was heard till nearly daylight, as the men toiled by lanterns
the gunwale to which he then clung, Ahab would once more have been tossed
the jaw; spilled him out of it, as he leaned to the push; and so he fell
the last man?  Shall we be dragged by him to the bottom of the sea?  Shall we
the life-- Brace forward!  Up helm!  cried Ahab like lightning to his men.
the line beyond, passed it, inboard, to the bowsman, and then, twice
the main royal-mast head; and in a few moments they were hoisting him
the mizen-mast-head, stood directly behind Ahab, though somewhat lower than
the monomaniac old man seemed distrustful of his crew's fidelity; at least,
the old man now?  sees't thou that sight, oh Ahab! -- shudder, shudder!  The
the other, through the portholes, as he sped, he also caught flying glimpses
the palms.  Leeward!  the white whale goes that way; look to windward, then;
the past night, the whale had reeled the involutions of the lines around him,
the place of the imaginary jet, less than a mile ahead --Moby Dick bodily
the red flag flying at the main-truck -- Ha!  he soars away with it! -- Where's
the rope; under these circumstances, its fastened end on deck is always given
the same voice every hour, at the striking of the helmsman's bell, was heard
the sea, midway between the two floating wrecks.  These floated aside, the
the ship!  those boats are useless now; repair them if ye can in time, and
the splash that the corpse soon made as it struck the sea; not so quick,
the spout now, sir; --too dark --cried a voice from the air.  How heading when
the tranced boat's crew stood still; then turned.  The ship?  Great God,
the water there.  Fedallah was motionlessly leaning over the same rail.
the whale shed off enticings.  No wonder there had been some among the hunters
the whale swimming out from them, turned, and showed one entire flank as he
the white brine caking in his wrinkles; the long tension of Ahab's bodily
the wind.  These warm Trade Winds, at least, that in the clear heavens blow
the wing, the white sea-fowls longingly lingered over the agitated pool that
thee brave as fearless fire (and as mechanical) I could swear thou wert a
thee towards the bulwarks, sir.  Oh, oh, oh!  how this splinter gores me now!
thee, as if thou wert the captain.  Aye, lad, thou shalt sit here in my own
their bristling barbs and
their ghostly baptism.  As Ahab now glided from the dejected Delight, the
their hearts were bowled along.  The wind that made great bellies of their
their mark, however the baser currents of the sea may turn and tack, and
their souls; and by the stirring perils of the previous day; the rack of the
their wakes; and long as the strange vessel was in view, she was seen to yaw
their wild craft went plunging towards its flying mark; by all these things,
them not!  those teeth but give new rowlocks to your oars.  Pull on! 'tis the
them, by this time being the first assailant himself, Moby Dick had turned,
themselves over the sunken head of the Indian at the mainmast, leaving a few
then ascertaining the precise bearing of the odor as nearly as possible, Ahab
then quickly upheaved, as if sideways sliding from a submerged berg of ice,
then there were plainly revealed two long crooked rows of white, glistening
then, as it sometimes happens, offered the most promising intermediate means
then, when night obscures the fish, the creature's future wake through the
there!  Luff, luff a point!  So; steady, man, steady!  There go flukes!  No,
there!  What d'ye see?  Nothing, sir.  Nothing!  and noon at hand!  The
there! --keep thy keenest eye upon the boats: --mark well the whale! --Ho!
there.  And yet, 'tis a noble and heroic thing, the wind!  who ever
there; but no fatal or even serious ill seemed to have befallen any one.  As
these suspicions were really his, he sagaciously refrained from verbally
these were not only now kept out of sight through the growing awe of Ahab,
they chanced to speak one word; by night, dumb men were both, so far as
they seemed to exhale from the scuttle, so instantaneously did they appear
they seemed to follow that one boat without molesting the others.  Heart of
they will honorably speak outright; not shake their heads, and give an old
thing barely tolerable only in some one brief vicissitude.  The ship itself,
this foreshadowing interval too, all humor, forced or natural, vanished.
this voyage, Starbuck.  Aye, sir, thou wilt have it so.  Some ships sail
this.  Stubb saw him pause; and perhaps intending, not vainly, though, to
thither, when, while but two thirds of the way aloft, and while peering
those boats were made.  But skilfully manoeuvred, incessantly wheeling like
those too, whose faithfulness on the look-out he had seemed to doubt somewhat;
though it was put together of all contrasting things --oak, and maple, and pine
though perished in the upper verdure.  But though his whole life was now
though; --cherries!  cherries!  cherries!  Oh, Flask, for one red cherry ere we
thought my brain was very calm --frozen calm, this old skull cracks so, like
thought was true.  Upon mustering the company, the Parsee was not there.
thoughts; unless God does that beating, does that thinking, does that
three boats were plain as the ship's three masts to his eye; the White Whale
three or four years' voyage in some other ship than their own; so that their
three shrieks went up as if the tongues of fire had voiced it.  Forehead to
three tall cherry trees, when the boys are cherrying among the boughs.  But by
throb, and our poor brains beat too much for that.  And yet, I've sometimes
throbbing trust, the loving alarms, with which the poor bride gave her bosom
through, and in an instant almost, the temporarily disabled boat lay nearly
through; and oysters come to join me.
thus booms his entire bulk into the pure element of air, and piling up a
thus close to him; when, with body arched back, and both arms lengthwise
tide-rip, at the mouth of a deep, rapid stream.  Man the mast-heads!  Call
tiger-yellow barbarians, and therefore their flesh more musky to the senses
till forced to it by Ahab's iciness did he allude to his one yet missing boy;
time, lying all crushed in the bottom of Stubb's boat, like one trodden under
time.  But struggling out of it again, and chancing to rise on a towering
time.  Good bye, good bye.  God bless ye, man, and may I forgive myself,
times girdle the unmeasured globe; yea and dive straight through it, but
times, but by a plank's breadth; while all the time, Ahab's unearthly slogan
to and fro pacing, beneath his slouched hat, at every turn he passed his own
to assist him.  His ivory leg had been snapped off, leaving but one short
to gaze over on the other side; but started at two reflected, fixed eyes in
to go at last.  And by the eternal Poles!  these same Trades that so directly
to hide beneath their souls, and not sprout forth a single spear or leaf.  In
to initiate him in the perils and wonders of a vocation almost immemorially
to intercept its broad fluttering wing between the hammer and the wood; and
to its pin on deck, when he struck the key-note to an orchestra, that made
to ladle him up; and while the old man's line --now parting -- admitted of his
to leeward.  So once more the sail was shortened, and everything passed
to look to themselves.  For so revolvingly appalling was the White Whale's
to show us your coffin!
to step; his hat slouched heavily over his eyes; so that however motionless
to the attack; but maddened by yesterday's fresh irons that corroded in him,
to the bottom of the cruellest perplexity; which was only solved for him by
to the chase; and this the critical third day? --For when three days flow
to their uttermost heads, drive them in!  ye but strike a thing without a
together in one continuous intense pursuit; be sure the first is the morning,
tones, attuned to the gradual prolongings of the whale's visible jets.  He's
too, are Starbuck's --wife and child of his brotherly, sisterly, play-fellow
top-gallant sails! --aye, they should have been kept on her all night.  But no
top-gallant stun-sails, Mr. Starbuck.  We must not run over him before
top-gallant-sail,
tore every other cry but his to shreds.  But at last in his untraceable
towards the doubloon in the main-mast -- Men, this gold is mine, for I earned
trailing ropes, and harpoons, and lances, a vast form shot lengthwise, but
trained chargers in the field; the boats for a while eluded him; though, at
true, the White Whale's way now began to abate, as it seemed, from the boat
trunk, entirely hiding the wrenched hideousness of his jaw.  But soon the
tumbling over each other's heads to gain the uttermost stern.  And now, while
turned.  Starbuck!  Sir.  Oh, Starbuck!  it is a mild, mild wind, and a
twain, and locked themselves fast again in
two crews were yet circling in the waters, reaching out after the revolving
tyrant driving them; the lean shade siding the solid rib.  For be this Parsee
unchangeable, and full as strong, blow my keeled soul along!  To it!  Aloft
unconditional and utter rejection of his so earnest suit.  But starting from
under certain given circumstances, pretty accurately foretell both the
under it, like seals from a seaside cave.  The first uprising momentum of the
under orders.  Look thou, underling!  that thou obeyest mine. --Stand round
undeviating limits, --the main-mast and the mizen; or else they saw him
unearthed roots of trees blown over, which still grow idly on at naked base,
unerringly whether, for all this, his eyes were really closed at times; or
unharmed, still hovered hard by; still they dared not pull into the eddy to
unknown constitutional reason, had refrained from mentioning all this, and not
unmisgiving hardihood of a Nantucketer's paternal love, had thus early sought
unpitying sharks accompanied him; and so pertinaciously stuck to the boat;
unseen being's body.  And that shadow was always hovering there.  For not by
unsetting polar star, which through the livelong, arctic, six months' night
unspeckled birds; these were the gentle thoughts of the feminine air; but to
up all hands and make sail!  he travels faster than I thought for; --the
up his ghost.  For all that, I would yet ring glasses with ye, would ye but
up into the air; then spiralized downwards, and went eddying again round his
up, monsieurs!  What an odd feeling, now, when a black boy's host to white men
upon a rounded hammock on the deck, whose gathered sides some noiseless
upon escaping with the corpse he bore, and as if the particular place of the
upon his mark; I see: the ship!  the ship!  Dash on, my men!  Will ye not
upon its advancing prow, smiting his jaws amid fiery showers of foam.  Ahab
upon me, sir; I ask no more, so I remain a part of ye.  Oh!  spite of
upon that world.  Here's food for thought, had Ahab time to think; but Ahab
upon the whale, the while I'm gone.  We'll talk to-morrow, nay, to-night,
upon their faces.  Like dislodged trucks, the heads of the harpooneers aloft
vain, oh, ye strangers, ye fly our sad burial; ye but turn us your taffrail
valor, that man's fear; guilt and guiltiness, all varieties were welded
various employments; all their enchanted eyes intent upon the whale, which
vengeful wake, as if lashing himself up to still another and more deadly
very, very old, Starbuck?  I feel deadly faint, bowed, and humped, as though
vindicated at daybreak, by the sight of a long sleek on the sea directly and
visible, sliding along the sea as if an isolated thing, and continually
visited: so does the fisherman, at his compass, with the whale; for after
walking, uttering no sound, except to hail the men aloft, or to bid them
warningly waving his bannered flukes in the air, the grand god revealed
was nowhere to be found.  Aye, sir, said Stubb -- caught among the tangles of
was to go before: --but still was to be seen again ere I could perish --How's
waved to the mate, --who held one of the tackle-ropes on deck --and bade him
way accompanied the boat with their bites.  It is a thing not uncommonly
way at a traveller's methodic pace.  As before, the attentive ship having
we go the gait that leaves no dust behind!  There she blows --she blows! --she
weary load I bear, one poor leg should have been snatched from under me?
well that!  Boats, boats!  Soon all the boats but Starbuck's were dropped;
were now all flying towards Ahab's boat; and when within a few yards began
were stuffed with brushwood!  I grin at thee, thou grinning whale!  Look ye,
whale --modifying its direction as he struck the surface --involuntarily
whale was now seen some mile or so ahead, at every roll of the sea revealing
whale's glittering spout was regularly announced from the manned mast-heads;
whale-boat once; --seen him?  No!  Well then, fill up again, captains, and
whale.  Give way!  cried Ahab to the oarsmen, and the boats darted forward
whale?  gone down again?  But he looked too nigh the boat; for as if bent
whaleman's allies; for of what present avail to the becalmed or windbound
what he may, all rib and keel was solid Ahab.  At the first faintest
whatever he wanted from the cabin that thing he sent for.  He ate in the same
whatever objects may be encircling him.
when last descried, they will,
when the old man --as his wont at intervals --stepped forth from the scuttle in
when the white whale lies down there, tied by head and tail.  He gave the
where is the ship?  Soon they through dim, bewildering mediums saw her
where?  Will I have eyes at the bottom of the sea, supposing I descend those
whether he was still intently scanning them; no matter, though he stood so
whether it was some latent deceitfulness and malice in him: whichever was
which admits but small entrance to any sympathy from the green country without
which chances to afford no foothold, the sailor at sea is hoisted up to that
which he leaned, and went to his pivot-hole, he suddenly thrust out his
which, for a space, the odorous cedar chips of the wrecks danced round and
which, like Satan, would not sink to hell till she had dragged a living part
while all the while, her masts and yards were thickly clustered with men, as
while fixed by infatuation, or fidelity, or fate, to their once lofty perches,
while the oarsmen were rocking in the two staved boats which had but just been
white bull Jupiter swimming away with ravished Europa clinging to his graceful
who namelessly transported and allured by all this serenity, had ventured to
whole captive form folded in the flag of Ahab, went down with his ship,
whosoever of ye first raises him, upon the day he shall be killed, this gold
wilful and erring, she could yet find it in her
will --and Ahab was fairly within the smoky mountain mist, which, thrown off
will twice rise to the surface; then rise again, to sink for evermore.  So
wind he now steers for the open jaw, murmured Starbuck to himself, as he
wing was before the old man's eyes; the long hooked bill at his head: with a
with Fedallah the day before, so Ahab was now found grimly clinging to his
with Moby Dick --two days he's floated --to-morrow will be the third.  Aye, men,
with archangelic shrieks, and his imperial beak thrust upwards, and his
with gold lace upon their coats! --Monsieurs, have ye seen one Pip? --a little
with his trumpet he pointed to the wreck.  Hast killed him?  The harpoon is
with their clothes in their hands.  What d'ye see?  cried Ahab, flattening
with their scud.  But soon resuming his horizontal attitude, Moby Dick swam
with what is called double-banked oars.  It was thus now.  But the added power
without a single hail, they stood far parted in the starlight; Ahab in his
without the least quivering of his own.  I will not go, said the stranger,
wives' darkling hint. --Begone!  Ye two are the opposite poles of one thing;
wonderful celerity uprising, and magnifying as it rose, till it turned, and
wondrous eyes did plainly say --We two watchmen never rest.  Nor, at any time,
wood; iron, and pitch, and hemp --yet all these ran into each other in the one
wooing vacancies to leeward.  It was only an instant; for again his eyes
word; and still gazing round him, was steadily lowered through the cloven
work into that leg.  But no bones broken, sir, I hope, said Stubb with true
world, like yonder windlass, and Fate is the handspike.  And all the time,
would have seen that even as Ahab's eyes so awed the crew's, the inscrutable
wouldst thou have? --Shall we keep chasing this murderous fish till he swamps
wrecked boat, which had been dropped upon the quarter-deck, and lay there
wrench it from its gripe.  As now he thus vainly strove, the jaw slipped
wrench thee! --run all of ye above, alow, cabin, forecastle --find him --not gone
wrinkles bordering it, the polished metallic-like marks of some swift
wrists, and ankles; livid contusions; wrenched harpoons and lances;
wrought steel!  murmured Starbuck gazing over the side, and following with
ye of old Ahab's close-coiled woe!  But so have I seen little Miriam and
years before this ocean rolled.  Fool!  I am the Fates' lieutenant; I act
you now saw through this wreck, as plainly as you see through the peeled,
you sail upon their tomb.  Then turning to his crew -- Are ye ready there?
your line --I thought I saw him dragging under.  My line!  my line?  Gone?
youth; even as thine, sir, are the wife and child of thy loving, longing,
