

























































    
     Astern there, sir, astern!  Lo, lo!  And who art thou, boy?  I see not my
     Besides, the old man well knew that to steer by transpointed needles, though
     During the most violent shocks of the
     Excellent!  Thou'st hit the world by that.  I know not, sir, but I was born
     Faith?  What's that?  Why, faith, sir, it's only a sort of exclamation-like
     I wrecked thee, and to-day the compasses would feign have wrecked me.  So,
     Lord, that the winds that come from heaven should be so unmannerly!  This is
     Mend it, eh?  I think we had best have a new line altogether.  I'll see Mr.
     Next day, a large
     Next morning the not-yet-subsided sea
     No, no, it wasn't; I said the corpusants have mercy on us all; and I hope
     Nor has this thy whale sunwards turned his dying head, and then gone round
     Not seldom in this life, when, on the
     Oh, boy, nor will I thee, unless I should thereby drag thee to worse horrors
     Owing to a confident reliance upon other means of determining the vessel's
     Sing, sir?  Do I sing?  Oh, I'm indifferent enough, sir, for that; but the
     Starbuck seemed wrestling with an angel; but turning from the door, he
     Steering now south-eastward by Ahab's
     Stubb and Flask
     The
     The anchors are working, sir.  Shall I get them inboard?  Strike nothing,
     The coffin laid upon two line-tubs, between
     The four whales slain that evening
     The season for the Line at length drew
     There he goes now; to him nothing's happened; but to me, the skewer seems
     There's a sight!  There's sound!  The greyheaded woodpecker tapping the
     Warmest climes but nurse the cruellest
     We must save that boy.  He's drowned with the rest on 'em, last night, said
     Well, then, did I believe all ye say, oh my pilot!  I have here two pledges
     While now the fated Pequod had been
     Yes, yes, round the Cape of Good Hope is the shortest way to Nantucket,
     a spar, a number of the seamen, arrested by the glare, now cohered
     and not finding anything, had again dashed on; again paused, and lowered her
     and the grave-digger in the play sings, spade in hand.  Dost thou never?
     but the sea will have its way.  Stubb, for one, can't fight it.  You see, Mr.
     but what after all canst thou do, but tell the poor, pitiful point, where
     have his way.  If, then, he were this instant--put aside, that crime would
     head of the lance, and then handing to the mate the long iron rod remaining,
     is to run for Moby Dick?  the very course he swung to this day noon?  now
     man!  Ahab's harpoon, the one forged at Perth's fire, remained firmly lashed
     markest thou not that the gale comes from the eastward, the very course Ahab
     oh, it's his son he's lost!  I take back the coat and watch --what says Ahab?
     or forty turns to form a preliminary hand-coil to toss overboard, when the
     the crimson fight were done: and floating in the lovely sunset sea and sky,
     thee by thy black hand, than though I grasped an Emperor's!  There go two
     things real are there, but imponderable thoughts?  Here now's the very
     to it.
     vain!  In vain, oh whale, dost thou seek intercedings with yon
     was kneeling beneath him on the ship's deck, and with face thrown up like
     when in distress, but also from the human look of their round heads and
     where his bayonet
     while Stubb and Flask --who in some small degree seemed then to be sharing
     wind!  oh-he-yo, cheerly, men!  the crew singing for joy, that so
     with the Pequod's; at almost every shock the helmsman had not failed to
     woman of sixty-five who ran away with a bald-headed young tinker once.  And
-- Hemp only can kill thee.  The gallows, ye mean. --I am immortal then, on
--Aye and he would fain kill all his crew.  Does he not say he will not strike
--I hold it here; he would have killed me with the very thing I handle now.
--a hearse and its plumes floating over the ocean with the waves for the
--he called for linen thread; and moving to the binnacle, slipped out the two
--if there be no other way --for eight-and-forty hours only --only that --you
--that one and all, they started from their reveries, and for the space of
--that's all, sir.  Um, um; go on.  I was about to say, sir, that-- Art
--there's naught beneath.  And yet, a coffin with a body in it rings pretty
.. < chapter cxix 19  THE CANDLES >
.. < chapter cxvi 2  THE DYING WHALE >
.. < chapter cxvii 23  THE WHALE WATCH >
.. < chapter cxviii 2  THE QUADRANT >
.. < chapter cxx 10  THE DECK TOWARDS THE END OF THE FIRST NIGHT WATCH >
.. < chapter cxxi 2  MIDNIGHT--THE FORECASTLE BULWARKS >
.. < chapter cxxii 2  MIDNIGHT ALOFT--THUNDER AND LIGHTNING >
.. < chapter cxxiii 10  THE MUSKET >
.. < chapter cxxiv 25  THE NEEDLE >
.. < chapter cxxv 6  THE LOG AND LINE >
.. < chapter cxxvi 14  THE LIFE-BUOY >
.. < chapter cxxvii 2  THE DECK >
.. < chapter cxxviii 9  THE PEQUOD MEETS THE RACHEL >
.. <p 490 >
.. <p 491 >
.. <p 491 >
.. <p 492 >
.. <p 493 >
.. <p 494 >
.. <p 495 >
.. <p 495 >
.. <p 496 >
.. <p 497 >
.. <p 498 >
.. <p 499 >
.. <p 500 >
.. <p 501 >
.. <p 502 >
.. <p 502 >
.. <p 503 >
.. <p 504 >
.. <p 505 >
.. <p 505 >
.. <p 506 >
.. <p 507 >
.. <p 508 >
.. <p 508 >
.. <p 509 >
.. <p 510 >
.. <p 511 >
.. <p 512 >
.. <p 512 >
.. <p 513 >
.. <p 514 >
.. <p 515 >
.. <p 515 >
.. <p 516 >
.. <p 517 >
.. <p 518 >
.. <p 519 >
.. <p 520 >
.. <p 521 >
.. <p 521 >
.. <p 522 >
.. <p 523 >
Abashed glances of servile wonder were exchanged by the sailors, as this was
Ahab standing by the helm.  Starbuck approaching him.  We must send down the
Ahab's, was eyeing the same sun with him; only the lids of his eyes half
Ahab, leaning over the taffrail, eyed the homeward-bound craft, he took from
And look ye, let the carpenter make another log, and mend thou the line.  See
But heedless of all this, his mood seized Ahab, as he happened to glance
Captain Ahab!  sir, sir!  here's Pip, trying to get on board again.  Peace,
Christian or civilized part of the crew said it was mermaids, and shuddered;
Commodores, and Captains; the world brags of thee, of thy cunning and might;
Cruppered with a coffin!  Sailing about with a grave-yard tray!  But never
East-south-east --which he was to steer, if practicable, was once more given
Fate.  But as ever before, the pagan harpooneers remained almost wholly
Flask --was startled by a cry so plaintively wild and unearthly --like
Flask.  But hark, again, and I'll answer ye the other thing.  First take your
Forward there!  Set all sail, and keep her to the wind!  And thus, while the
God's sake --I beg, I conjure --here exclaimed the stranger Captain to Ahab,
Hand me those main-mast links there; I would fain feel this pulse, and let
Hear me, then: I take that mast-head flame we saw for a sign of good luck;
Holding by a shroud, Starbuck was standing on the quarter-deck; at every
I kept my job-shop in the Vineyard; they might have taken it into their
I must see.  Aye, aye; and powder in the pan; -- that's not good.  Best spill
I own thy speechless, placeless power; but to the last gasp of my earthquake
I then pay over the same with pitch, sir?  moving his hand as with a
I'll contribute to raise rods on the Himmalehs and Andes, that all the world
Instantly the yards were squared, to the lively song of Ho!  the fair
Isle of Albemarle, one of the Gallipagos, is cut by the Equator right in the
Main-top-sail yard. --Tashtego passing new lashings around it.  Um, um, um.
Manilla isles, the Spanish land-breeze, wantonly turned sailor, had gone to
Marine Insurance companies have extra guarantees?  Here are hydrants,
Moby Dick had suddenly loomed up out of the blue water, not very far to
Moby Dick?  This instant thou must be eyeing him.  These eyes of mine look
Now, as the lightning rod to a spire on shore is intended to carry off the
Oh, high aspiring, rainbowed jet! --that one strivest, this one jettest all in
Only a fool would try it.  Say he were pinioned even; knotted all over with
Pequod thrust her undaunted bows into the opposing wind, for the supposed
Pequod was as infallibly going West.  But ere the first wild alarm could get
Pequod's main-chains, and he sprang to the deck.  Immediately he was
Pequod.  He desired that ship to unite with his own in the search; by sailing
Pip?  come to help; eh, Pip?  Pip?  whom call ye Pip?  Pip jumped from the
Queequeg's tattooing burned like Satanic blue flames on his body.  The tableau
Rachel's the more melancholy, was the circumstance, that not only was one of
Rat-tat!  So man's seconds tick!  Oh!  how immaterial are all materials!  What
Skies the most effulgent but basket the deadliest thunders: gorgeous Cuba
Some hours after midnight, the Typhoon abated so much, that through the
Starbuck looked away.  With a blow from the top-maul Ahab knocked off the steel
Starbuck, a wave has such a great long start before it leaps, all round the
Starbuck, after a melancholy pause.  Rig it, carpenter; do not look at me
Starbuck, going forward, pushed against some one.  It was Stubb.  What
Stop that thunder!  Plenty too much thunder up here.  What's the use of
Stubb about it.
Stubb by the shoulder, and pointing his hand towards the weather bow,
Stubb.  It will make a good enough one, said Flask, the carpenter here can
Tahitian and the grizzly Manxman.  Take the reel, one of ye, I'll heave.
That unblinkingly vivid Japanese sun seems the blazing focus of the glassy
The land is hundreds of leagues away, and locked Japan the nearest.  I stand
The parted mouth of Tashtego revealed his shark-white teeth, which strangely
The recall signals were placed in the rigging; darkness came on; and forced
The waif-pole was thrust upright into the dead whale's spout-hole; and the
Then turning --the last link held fast in his left hand, he put his foot upon
They went towards the extreme stern, on the ship's lee side, where the deck,
Thou canst blind; but I can then grope.  Thou canst consume; but I can then
Thunder!  said Ahab, groping his way along the bulwarks to his pivot-hole;
Titans, they say, hummed snatches when chipping out the craters for volcanoes;
Turk's-headed life-lines, each three feet long hanging all round to the
Typhoon which had struck her directly ahead.  When darkness came on, sky and
Typhoon, the man at the Pequod's jaw-bone tiller had several times been
What a hold they have, too!  I wonder, Flask, whether the world is anchored
What are you talking about, then?  Not one ship in a hundred carries rods,
What!  hope to wrest this old man's living power from his own living hands?
White Whale, on the White Whale's own
[Sudden, repeated flashes of lightning; the nine flames leap lengthwise to
a double horizon, as it were.  I will wager something now, whispered Stubb
a life-buoy of it.  It's like turning an old coat; going to bring the flesh on
a nasty night, lad.
a shoal of whales, which had led them some four or five miles from the ship;
above the snow-line.  Oh, ye frozen heavens!  look down here.  Ye did beget
according to its vicissitudes.  But as he was now bringing the ship as near
ache; my whole beaten brain seems as beheaded, and rolling on some stunning
adrift from the spars, and went eddying away to leeward, like the feathers
advanced to him.  Ahab stood before him, and was lightly unwinding some thirty
advancing.  Hands off from that holiness!  Where sayest thou Pip was, boy?
advancing.  How was it?  It seemed that somewhat late on the afternoon of the
aft --the shivered remnants of the jib and fore and main-top-sails were cut
again, without a lesson to me.  Oh, trebly hooped and welded hip of power!
again.  Now, then, Pip, we'll talk this over; I do suck most wondrous
again. --Oh Mary!  Mary! --boy!  boy!  boy! --But if I wake thee not to death, old
against the door.  On this level, Ahab's hammock swings within; his head
ago is it since you said the very contrary?  Didn't you once say that whatever
ahead; and when she profoundly settled by the stern, he turned behind, and
all hum of human weal or woe; in these most candid and impartial seas; where
all inquiring heads at last.  Up with it!  So.  The log was heaved.  The
all my pains to go for nothing with that coffin?  And now I'm ordered to make
all their pains seemed naught.  Though lifted to the very top of the cranes,
all these seemed the strange calm things preluding some riotous and desperate
all waned at last with the pallidness aloft; and once more the Pequod and
all!  To sailors, oaths are household words; they will swear in the trance
all-quickening sun, that only calls forth life, but gives it not again.  Yet
almost seemed as if far over from the deep green convent valleys of the
aloft, few words were heard from the enchanted crew; who in one thick
alone here upon an open sea, with two oceans and a whole continent between
aloud, Thou art a full ship and homeward bound, thou sayest; well, then,
altar.  Blast the boat!  let it go!  cried Stubb at this instant, as a
am I in the dark side of earth, that its other side, the theoretic bright one,
an albatross, which sometimes are cast to the winds when that storm-tossed
an immortality-preserver!  I'll think of that.  But no.  So far gone
and Ahab, --aye, man, and all of us, --were in no more danger then, in my poor
and I'm the professor of musical glasses --tap, tap! ( Ahab to himself.)
and angular log attached hung, long untouched, just beneath the railing of
and body, lungs and life, old Ahab is bound.  And that ye may know to what
and destroy thee!  As the frantic old man thus spoke and thus trampled with
and doom, -- that's fair for Moby Dick.  It's a fair wind that's only fair for
and invoking brow, with his last dying motions.  He too worships fire; most
and line.  The ship was sailing plungingly; astern the billows rolled in
and on sea!  Both were silent again, as one man.  The grey dawn came on, and
and set; she heads her course.  Stern all!  Oh Moby Dick, I clutch thy heart
and skin together? --And would I be a murderer, then, if --and slowly,
and stir nothing, but lash everything.  The wind rises, but it has not got
and turns him to it, --how slowly, but how steadfastly, his homage-rendering
and while they were yet in swift chase to windward, the white hump and head of
anybody else, never mind how foolish?  Here!  cried Starbuck, seizing
anywhere; if she is, she swings with an uncommon long cable, though.  There,
apprise Captain Ahab of the circumstance.  Ere knocking at his state-room, he
are none; the horizon floats; and this nakedness of unrelieved radiance is
arm slowly fell; for a moment he almost seemed to stagger.  Standing behind
arrange it easily.  Bring it up; there's nothing else for it, said
art but my fiery father; my sweet mother, I know not.  Oh, cruel!  what hast
as the insufferable splendors of God's throne.  Well that Ahab's quadrant
asleep, Mr Stubb; go thou down, and wake him, and tell him.  I must see to
astern?  Upon this every soul was confounded; for the phenomenon just then
astrological-looking instrument placed to his eye, he remained in that posture
at its every pore; and the studded iron-bound cask followed the sailor to the
at last!  Such were the sounds that now came hurtling from out the old man's
at length remain but one little heap of ashes!  Aye, cried Stubb, but
at the beginning, and is at the middle when midway, and comes to an end at
at your coat collar.  Don't you see, then, that for these extra risks the
awestruck by the aspect of their commander, the seamen clustered together on
bade him hold it upright, without its touching the deck.  Then, with the
be ashes.  Take the homage of these poor eyes, and shutter-hands.  I would
be more hideous than a caged tiger, then.  I could not endure the sight;
be sensible, Flask?  it's easy to be sensible; why don't ye, then?  any man
be, thou leapest out of darkness; but I am darkness leaping out of light,
because of all this, the lower parts of a ship's
been woven into the shrouds and the cordage.  While this pallidness was burning
before, catch somewhat of the rushing breeze, and joyfully feel our bagging
beginning, hence callest thyself unbegun.  I know that of me, which thou
beheld with what seemed redoubled supernaturalness in their pallor.  The
believe it did, sir; does the ferrule stand, sir?  Well enough.  But art
beyond thee, thou clear spirit, to whom all thy eternity is but time, all
big generous hands they are, to be sure.  These are your iron fists, hey?
billows are my foster-brothers!
billows have still rolled on speechless and unspoken to, as stars that shine
bird is on the wing.  The three corresponding new sails were now bent and
bit of steel Ahab can make one of his own, that will point as true as any.
black, glossy back, and far out upon the
blinding palpableness must have been the cause.  Thrusting his head half way
blunted needle endwise on the top of it, and less strongly hammered that,
boat --the swiftest keeled of all --seemed to have succeeded in fastening --at
boat that had killed it lay by its side all night; and that boat was Ahab's.
boat's bottom at the stern, and left it again, all dripping through like a
boats; and though she had thus continued doing till day light; yet not the
bones hast builded thy separate throne somewhere in the heart of these
bosom of his frock. --Ahab comes slowly from the cabin-gangway, and hears Pip
bosom!  Despatch!  and get these traps out of sight.  He goes aft.  That was
bottom, as if to yield him his pillow, though in sooth but a hard one.  And
bowels for a laugh?  And look ye, Mr. Starbuck --but it's too dark to look.
boy; Ahab's cabin shall be Pip's home henceforth, while Ahab lives.  Thou
braces!  Up helm! --square in!  In an instant the yards swung round; and as
breath he extinguished the flame.  As in the hurricane that sweeps the plain,
breeze --however reluctantly and gloomily, --than he mechanically went below to
bubbling white water; and after that nothing more; whence it was concluded
burning in that sulphurous air, like three gigantic wax tapers before an
burst, and all life fled from the smitten hull.  Bad news; she brings bad
but I make a bandbox for Queequeg, and he wont put his head into it.  Are
but a tossed shuttle-cock to the blast, it is by no means uncommon to see
but as no cask of sufficient lightness could be found, and as in the feverish
but no hand rose to seize it, and the sun having long beat upon this cask
but scorches him, as these old eyes are even now scorched with thy light, O
but snow-caps.  Let me see.  Nail down the lid; caulk the seams; pay over
but suddenly finding his path made plain to him by elbowed lances of fire.
but the pagan harpooneers remained
but the sea that had stove its bottom had caused the loose leather sheath to
but you will never pound into me what you were just now saying.  And how long
call me an empty ship, and outward-bound.  So go thy ways, and I will mine.
can follow, thou must still appear to me, to pilot me still? --Was it not so?
can't withstand thee, then, old man.  Not reasoning; not remonstrance; not
candles --that's the good promise we saw.  At that moment Starbuck caught
cards into these old hands of mine; swears that I must play them, and no
carry to each mast, is intended to conduct it into the water.  But as this
carved Roman slave, while that wild cry remained within hearing.  The
centrally fixed on the nailed doubloon; impatient for the order to point the
charcoal.  Well, well; I heard Ahab mutter, "Here some one thrusts these
clenched fist.  Heading East at this hour in the morning, and the sun
clumsily practicable, was not a thing to be passed over by superstitious
cluster stood on the forecastle, all their eyes gleaming in that pale
coat; mayhap, his watch --he's so cursed anxious to get it back.  Who ever
cocked hats; the cocks form gable-end eave-troughs, Flask.  No more
coffin for Queequeg; but they've set me now to turning it into something
coffin knock against the churchyard gate, going in?  Faith, sir, I've--
coffin!  cried Starbuck, starting.  Rather queer, that, I should say, said
coffin, and no more. --Mr. Stubb, Mr. Flask, come forward with me.  He goes
coffin.  Then, if the hull go down, there'll be thirty lively fellows all
coffins and hearses.  We work by the month, or by the job, or by the profit;
coffins?  Thou art as unprincipled as the gods, and as much of a
company with her, crying and sobbing with their human sort of wail.  But this
compasses --that's all.  Thou hast before now heard of such a thing, I take
conductor must descend to considerable depth, that its end may avoid all
confounded cobbling, and then we stash it if we can.  hem!  i'll do the job,
contact with the hull; and as moreover, if kept constantly towing there, it
corpusants have mercy on us all, cried Stubb, again.  At the base of the
could not possibly fly his howlings; all comfort, sleep itself, inestimable
course to be changed accordingly.  The yards were hard up; and once more the
crew instantly ran to the braces --though not a sail was left aloft.  For the
cried Ahab; let's have fair play here, though we be the weaker side.  Yet
cried Starbuck, let the Typhoon sing, and strike his harp here in our
cried Starbuck.  The corpusants!  the corpusants!  All the yard-arms were
crouching in the bow, sat watching the sharks, that spectrally played round
daft ones now, muttered the old Manxman.  One daft with strength, the other
daft with weakness.  But here's the end of the rotten line --all dripping, too.
dashed to the deck.  Thou poor, proud heaven-gazer and sun's pilot!  yesterday
dashing high up against the reeling ship's high tetering side, stove in the
dawn, was sailing by a cluster of rocky islets; the watch --then headed by
dawn, when he came to the deck; it was then recounted to him by Flask, not
day coffins to clap them in, and yet again life-buoys out of those same
day previous, while three of the stranger's boats were engaged with
day, the Pequod was torn of her canvas, and bare-poled was left to fight a
dead-reckoning, by log and by line; these shall conduct me, and show me my
deadly harm; and come to deadly harm, my soul swears this ship will, if Ahab
deck; but all their eyes upcast.  Aye, aye, men!  cried Ahab.  Look up at
deeper gloom, Ahab, who had sterned off from the whale, sat intently
defiance.  To neither love nor reverence wilt thou be kind; and e'en for hate
demanded, my men, the thunder turned old Ahab's needles; but out of this
descending her side.  A few keen pulls, and his boat-hook soon clinched the
dictating the thing he was now about to do, were certain prudential motives,
did run from him in a terror of dismay.
die it!
directing the men in the higher hoisting and firmer lashing of the boats.  But
dost thou, darker half, rock me with a prouder, if a darker faith.  All thy
down a beaver; so.  Halloa!  whew!  there goes my tarpaulin overboard; Lord,
dreaded symbol of grim death, by a mere hap, made the expressive sign of the
drive us towards home.  Yonder, to windward, all is blackness of doom; but
drop off; and from the keen steel barb there now came a levelled flame of
dropped from the stern, where it always hung obedient to a cunning spring;
dumbest dust.  Old man of oceans!  of all this fiery life of thine, what will
eagerness of what seemed the approaching crisis of the voyage, all hands were
earth, yet suckled by the sea; though hill and valley mothered me, ye
either case, the needle never again, of itself, recovers the original virtue
else.  Then tell me; art thou not an arrant, all-grasping, inter-meddling,
empty into thee!
encountering the gay Bachelor, whales were seen and four were slain; and one
end.  Petrified by his aspect, and still more shrinking from the fiery dart
entreaty wilt thou hearken to; all this thou scornest.  Flat obedience to thy
ere thou couldst die on this voyage, two hearses must verily be seen by thee
erect before the lofty tri-pointed trinity of flames.  Oh!  thou clear spirit
error-abounding log?  and in this very Typhoon, did he not swear that he
essentially one with the electricity beheld in heaven; hence it is not to be
evening, somehow to Ahab conveyed a wondrousness unknown before.  He turns
every soul on her decks were wrapped in a pall.  A moment or two passed, when
exchanged.  Where was he? --not killed! --not killed!  cried Ahab, closely
exclaimed, --Look ye, for yourselves, if Ahab be not the lord of the level
explained the wonder.  Those rocky islands the ship had passed were the resort
extended hand, now took the precise bearing of the sun, and satisfied that
eyeing the transpointed compasses, the old man, with the sharp of his
eyes could persuade such ignorance as theirs, and one after another they
eyes do dimly see it.  Oh, thou foundling fire, thou hermit immemorial, thou
face, saw the Parsee; and hooped round by the gloom of the night they seemed
fair one had only been juggling her.  Meanwhile, whatever were his own secret
faith; but see!  no sooner dead, than death whirls round the corpse, and it
faithful, broad, baronial vassal of the sun! --Oh that these too-favoring eyes
fangs: the tiger of Bengal crouches in spiced groves of ceaseless verdure.
fatal; all its loadstone virtue being annihilated, so that the before
fatalistic despair that seemed meant for himself --these passed over the mute,
fate reaches all the others that may be in the ship; even were the lowermost
felt so kind a thing as this, perhaps he had ne'er been lost!  This seems to
fighting for one coffin, a sight not seen very often beneath the sun!  Come
filled with Nantucket soundings.
find it rather hard.  Yes, when a fellow's soaked through, it's hard to be
finger has been laid on the ship; when his mene, mene, Tekel Upharsin has
fire.  So, swinging his seated form to the roll of the ship, and with his
firmament.  Curse thee, thou quadrant!  dashing it to the deck, no longer
fisherman.  It drags hard; I guess he's holding on.  Jerk him, Tahiti!  Jerk
flash of the lightning glancing aloft, to see what additional disaster might
flip only foamin'; When he stirs in the spicin', -- Such a funny, sporty,
following him.  Back, lad; I will be with ye again presently.  He goes!  Not
following the flashes, a voice was heard at his side; and almost at the same
for form's sake than anything else, regularly putting down upon the customary
for men.  But the bodings of the crew were destined to receive a most
for some moments to catch the precise instant when the sun should gain its
for those masts are rooted in a hold that is going to be chock a' block with
foreshadowing of evil in the future, but as the fulfilment of an evil already
frankly back from the binnacle, and pointing his stretched arm towards it,
from the topsail-yard-arms, when most they teter over to a seething sea; but
full of it.  Hark to it.  Aye, and that's because the lid there's a
full of the sweet things of love and gratitude.  Come!  I feel prouder leading
fun: so the old song says; --( sings.) Oh!  jolly is the gale, And a joker
further?  Can it be that in some spiritual sense the coffin is, after all, but
gamy, jesty, joky, hoky-poky lad, is the Ocean, oh!  Thunder splits the
gleamed as if they too
go on a better voyage than this.  Overhearing Starbuck, the panic-stricken
gods again.  hark ye, dost thou not ever sing working about a coffin?  The
goodness, and in man all ill, lo you!  see the omniscient gods oblivious of
grave, lingering glances towards the receding Bachelor; but the Bachelor's
grey hairs of mine 'tis not worth while disputing, 'specially with a
ground.  Oh, oh!  Yet blindfold, yet will I talk to thee.  Light though thou
gurgling track, pushed her on like giants' palms outspread.  The strong,
had been tipped by corpusants; while lit up by the preternatural light,
had died wide apart; one, far to windward; one, less distant, to leeward;
half-articulated wailings of the ghosts of all Herod's murdered Innocents
half-stranded.  Shall I strike it, sir?  Strike nothing; lash it.  If I had
hammer that knot down, and we've done.  So; next to touching land, lighting
hammer, calking-iron, pitch-pot, and marling-spike!  Let's to it.
handled so many deadly lances, strange, that I should shake so now.  Loaded?
hanging.  No, Stubb; you may pound that knot there as much as you please,
harm can come to the holder of the rod, unless the mast is first struck?
haughty agony, i read my sire.  leap!  leap up, and lick the sky!  I leap
have been because there was none in his spade, sir.  But the calking mallet is
have befallen the intricate hamper there; while Stubb and Flask were
have sat before the dense coal fire and watched it all aglow, full of its
have spoiled it. 'Twill hold, old gentleman.  Long heat and wet, have they
have to meet it, is just across the deck here.  But never mind; it's all in
have vow'd thy vow; say'st all of us are Ahabs.  Great God forbid! -- But is
he is wont to stand --his stand-point is stove, man!  Now jump overboard, and
he's sleeping.  Sleeping?  aye, but still alive, and soon awake again.  I
head, and so expiring --that strange spectacle, beheld of such a placid
heads some other way. -- Oh, thou dark Hindoo half of nature, who of drowned
heard of two pious whale-ships cruising after
heard.  Hast seen the White Whale?  Aye, yesterday.  Have ye seen a
hearses?  Have I not said, old man, that neither hearse nor coffin can be
heart-strings.  Come, let's down.  What's this?  here's velvet shark-skin,
help and hope of most endangered life.  A life-buoy of a coffin!  Does it go
her course as possible, watching the compass meanwhile, lo!  a good sign!
high noon; and Ahab, seated in the bows of his high-hoisted boat, was about
him Starbuck looked, and lo!  the two compasses pointed East, and the
him off; we haul in no cowards here.  Ho!  there's his arm just breaking
his fatal pride.
his feelings --likewise unmurmuringly acquiesced.  As for the men, though some
his live and dead feet, a sneering triumph that seemed meant for Ahab, and a
his perch, when a cry was heard --a cry and a rushing --and looking up, they
his pocket a small vial of sand, and then looking from the ship to the vial,
his quadrant was no more, and recalled his frantic oath about the level log
his spars to any gale?  Has he not dashed his heavenly quadrant?  and in these
his subtile skill, in a matter so wondrous as that of the inverted compasses.
his undeviating wake.  Ha, ha, my ship!  thou mightest well be taken now for
hollow tree!  Blind and dumb might well be envied now.  See!  that thing rests
homeward-bound.  How wondrous familiar is a fool!  muttered Ahab; then
hooded their orbs, and his wild face was subdued to an earthly
humming silence to reign there, though it was hooped round by all the roar of
immediately shifting his tone, he cried -- The corpusants have mercy on us
immediately, and at any one of the twenty-four hours, any decided change in
impatient of any toil but what was directly connected with its final end,
in Ahab's front, but with his head bowed away from him; while near by, from
in all my voyagings, seldom have I heard a common oath when God's burning
in its conspicuous crotch, so that it projected beyond his whale-boat's bow;
in that Japanese sea, the days in summer are as freshets of effulgences.
in this world but to cut my throat.  And when that's done, ten to one I sing
instant a volley of thunder peals rolled overhead.  Who's there?  Old
instantly lowered in chase.  After a keen sail before the wind, this fourth
insultest the sun!  Science!  Curse thee, thou vain toy; and cursed be all
intently gazing at Ahab's hand, and feeling it.  Ah, now, had poor Pip but
into the binnacle, Ahab caught one glimpse of the compasses; his uplifted
into the very eye that is even now beholding him; aye, and into the eye that
inuendoes Queequeg hinted a hint concerning his coffin.  A life-buoy of a
involuntarily paused before it a moment.  The cabin lamp --taking long swings
is even now equally beholding the objects on the unknown, thither side of
is the whale, A' flourishin' his tail, -- Such a funny, sporty, gamy, jesty,
it --lift it.  Strange, that I, who have
it at all; it's undignified; it's not my place.  Let tinkers' brats do
it had shrunken, so that it slowly filled, and the parched wood also filled
it!  It has happened before.  Mr. Starbuck, last night's thunder turned our
it.  Aye; but never before has it happened to me, sir, said the pale
it.  In compliance with the standing order of his commander -- to report
it; and so the two vessels parted; the crew of the Pequod looking with
it; mark it well; the white flame but lights the way to the White Whale!
it? --wait.  I'll cure myself of this. I'll hold the musket boldly while I
itself.  He would have shot me once, he murmured, yes, there's the very
jack-of-all-trades.  But I do not mean anything, sir.  I do as I do.  The
jobs.  Lord!  what an affection all old women have for tinkers.  I know an old
joky, hoky-poky lad, is the Ocean, oh!  The scud all a flyin' That's his
keep up my spirits.  And I tell you what it is, Mr. Starbuck, there's no way
kneel and kiss thee; but at thy highest, come as mere supernal power; and
know thee, thou clear spirit, and I now know that thy right worship is
knowest not of thyself, oh, thou omnipotent.  There is some unsuffusing thing
knows tornadoes that never swept tame northern lands.  So, too, it is, that in
land and on sea, cried Ahab, with a laugh of derision; -- Immortal on land
lantern hanging from its top, cast a troubled flickering glare upon the
last one must be grown in America.  Aye, aye!  a strange sight that, Parsee:
last safe aboard, she crowded all sail --stunsail on stunsail --after the
leaping out of thee!  The javelins cease; open eyes; see, or not?  There burn
least glimpse of the missing keel had been seen.  The story told, the
least, as well as the man at the mast-head could tell anything about it.  In
leeward; whereupon, the fourth rigged boat --a reserved one --had been
leg off from the crown of the anchor here, though, so I can pass the rope;
let me charter your ship --I will gladly pay for it, and roundly pay for it
levelled steel, and her progress solely determined by Ahab's level log and
life will dispute its unconditional, unintegral mastery in me.  In the midst
light, the invisible sun was only known by the spread intensity of his place;
lightning has actually struck the vessel, so as to smite down some of the
lightning-rod at all in a storm?  Don't you see, you timber-head, that no
lightning-rod in the storm, and standing close by a mast that hasn't got any
lightning-rods are not always overboard; but are generally made in long
lightning.  At that moment in one of the intervals of profound darkness,
like an exploding bomb upon a dazed and sleepy town.  Towards evening of that
like sap in a tree.  Yes, our three masts will yet be as three spermaceti
like this.  i make a leg for captain ahab, and he wears it like a gentleman;
line; the Pequod held on her path towards the Equator.  Making so long a
lines run whole, and whirling out: come in broken, and dragging slow.  Ha,
little man, you have pretty red hair, but you couldn't get afire now.  Shake
live, the queenly personality lives in me, and feels her royal rights.  But
living things, exhaled as air, but water now.  Then hail, for ever hail, O
loadstone!  The sun is East, and that compass swears it!  One after another
log-line.  But Ahab can mend all.  Haul in here, Tahitian; reel up, Manxman.
lonely old heads to run off with me.  But heigh-ho!  there are no caps at sea
long tailed coat ought always to be worn in all storms afloat.  The tails
long, ribbed hull, seemed as the three Horatii pirouetting on one sufficient
look ye here; thus I blow out the last fear!  And with one blast of his
look, sir!  Beware the hatchway!  Thank ye, man.  Thy coffin lies handy to
loose coils rapidly straightened out in a long dragging line astern, and
loosening out of the middle of the world.  Haul in, haul in, Tahitian!  These
lost life-buoy was now to be replaced; Starbuck was directed to see to it;
lowered by the rolling billows, the towing resistance of the log caused the
lucifers forward?  Stop, now; didn't you say so?  Well, suppose I did?  What
madest me, and like a true child of fire, I breathe it back to thee.
magnetic energy, as developed in the mariner's needle, is, as all know,
magnetic steel was of no more use than an old wife's knitting needle.  But in
main-top-sail yard!  Ho, gluepots!  Loftiest trucks were made for wildest
main-top-sail yard, sir.  The band is working loose, and the lee lift is
mainmast, full beneath the doubloon and the flame, the parsee was kneeling
make him the wilful murderer of thirty men and more, if this ship come to any
man from Man; a man born in once independent Man, and now unmanned of Man;
man, said the Parsee, as his eyes lighted up like fire-flies in the gloom,
man, who can tell to what unsounded deeps Starbuck's body this day week may
man; forbear!  t'is an ill voyage!  ill begun, ill continued; let me square
mariners quickly run to the braces, and would stand there with all their eyes
mark for thunderbolts; so at those last words of ahab's many of the mariners
mark his boat there; where is that stove?  In the stern-sheets, man; where
mate, gloomily.  Here, it must needs be said, that accidents like this have in
maul, after repeatedly smiting the upper end of this iron rod, he placed the
may be secured; but out on privileges!  Let them be, sir.  Look aloft!
me and law. --Aye, aye, 'tis so. --Is heaven a murderer
me in the wide-slaughtering Typhoon, and the hushed burial of its after calm.
me, sir, as a man-rope; something that weak souls may hold by.  Oh, sir, let
medicine!
men fly the neighborhood of some lone, gigantic elm, whose very height and
men in the sea.  below in his hammock, ahab did not hear of this till grey
men never heeding their gaze for the lively revelry they were in.  And as
middle, over one of the compass-cards.  At first, the steel went round and
middle.  He's always under the Line--fiery hot, I tell ye!  He's looking this
middle.  Seems to me some sort of Equator cuts yon old man, too, right in his
midnight waves, which gently chafed the whale's broad flank, like soft surf
mighty Pilot!  thou tellest me truly
mind.  We workers in woods make bridal-bedsteads and card-tables, as well as
mind; catch the turn there, and pass it.  Seems to me we are lashing down
mine beat against it; blood against fire!  So.
missing boat; kindling a fire in her try-pots for a beacon; and every
moment all the aghast mate's thoughts seemed theirs; they raised a half
monkey-jackets and tarpaulins for me; I must mount a swallow-tail, and drive
monopolizing, heathenish old scamp, to be one day making legs, and the next
more than one case occurred to ships in violent storms.  The
motionless Parsee's face.  Unobserved he rose and glided away; while,
mounted on them, and passing additional lashings over the anchors there
mouth, stood up in his boat; ere he could hopefully hail, Ahab's voice was
much marvelled at, that such things should be.  In instances where the
much the same, Carpenter.  Hast thou ever helped carry a bier, and heard the
musket that he pointed at me; --that one with the studded stock; let me touch
muskets, there strangely evolved an evil thought; but so blent with its
must, oh, you must, and you shall do this thing.  His son!  cried Stubb,
mutinous cry.  But dashing the rattling lightning links to the deck, and
muttered: Foolish toy!  babies' plaything of haughty Admirals, and
near; and every day when Ahab, coming from his cabin, cast his eyes aloft,
necessitated to leave that boat to its fate till near midnight, but, for the
neutral or good accompaniments that for the instant he hardly knew it for
news, muttered the old Manxman.  But ere her commander, who, with trumpet to
nightfall; but the windward one could not be reached till morning; and the
none of thine own.  What!  how can you see better of a dark night than
not a brave man; never said i was a brave man; I am a coward; and I sing to
not be his.  Ha!  is he muttering in his sleep?  Yes, just there, --in there,
not for us to ask the why and wherefore of our work, unless it be too
not how came ye, hence callest thyself unbegotten; certainly knowest not thy
not know that the colic is a noisy malady.  Oh, take medicine, take
not shot from the crown of his head, as if God had meant him to gaze on his
not take it.  The lightning flashes through my skull; mine eye-balls ache and
not thou the leg-maker?  Look, did not this stump come from thy shop?  I
notice the whirling velocity with which they revolved upon the cards; it is a
now hammers at us to stave us, we can turn it into a fair wind that will
now listen.  What's the mighty difference between holding a mast's
now, tenderly.  I'll have me --let's see --how many in the ship's company, all
observed by Ahab had unaccountably escaped every one else; but its very
ocean's immeasureable burning-glass.  The sky looks lacquered; clouds there
of
of a church!  What's here?  Life buoy, sir.  Mr. Starbuck's orders.  Oh,
of clay reward for Pip; five feet high-- looks cowardly --quickest known by
of clear fire, whom on these seas I as Persian once did worship, till in the
of great numbers of seals, and some young seals that had lost their dams,
of line revolved, so stood with the angular log hanging downwards, till Ahab
of rum.  Um, um, um!
of the calm, and in the teeth of the tempest; they will imprecate curses
of the personified impersonal, a personality stands here.  Though but a
of the rigging, and more or less impeding the vessel's way in the water;
of the steel, or merely intended to augment the awe of the crew, is uncertain
of them by Ahab.  It was far down the afternoon; and when all the spearings of
of them lowly rumbled, their fear of Ahab was greater than their fear of
off in a huff.  The whole he can endure; at the parts he baulks.  Now I don't
officer's skewered feather, and trailing behind like his sash.  Why don't ye
often happens.  There was some apprehension, but no positive alarm, as yet.
old Manxman, who was intently eyeing both him and the line, made bold to
old Perth now come and rivet these two hands together; the black one with the
old man's bolted door, --a thin one, with fixed blinds inserted, in place of
old reelman to stagger strangely.  Hold hard!  Snap!  the overstrained line
on deck is the most satisfactory.  I say, just wring out my jacket skirts,
on the sea; the first not made by mortal hands; and the visible wood of the
on two line-tubs, full of tow-lines.  A most malicious wag, that fellow.
one ahead; one astern.  These last three were brought alongside ere
one grain of sand will be to-morrow noon; and yet with thy impotence thou
one in the precisely opposite direction --the ship had not only been
one inserted into the kelson.  Deliberately standing before the binnacle, and
one missing whale-boat in the height of the whaling season?  See, Flask, only
one ship went cheerily before the breeze, the other stubbornly fought against
only the more affected some of them, because most mariners cherish a very
opinion, than all the crews in ten thousand ships now sailing the seas.  Why,
or some dams that had lost their cubs, must have risen nigh the ship and kept
orchard twig.  In various enchanted attitudes, like the standing, or
other man aloft on the look-out.  But though when she had thus sailed a
other, its numerous cabalistical contrivances, he pondered again, and
others."  And damn me, Ahab, but thou actest right; live in the game, and
out abroad among the crew, the old man with a rigid laugh exclaimed, I have
outside, or thrown down into the sea, as occasion may require.  The rods!
over the sea some four or five miles apart, on parallel lines, and so sweeping
over the ship's stern.  Were ever such things done before with a coffin?  Some
own flat commands, this is all thou breathest.  Aye, and say'st the men
pale, forked fire.  As the silent harpoon burned there like a serpent's
pall-bearers.  Ha!  Such a sight we shall not soon see.  Believe it or not,
passage through such unfrequented waters, descrying no ships, and ere long,
passionlessness.  At length the desired observation was taken; and with his
peculiar ground; that man was swallowed up in the deep.  But few, perhaps,
pencil upon his ivory leg, Ahab soon calculated what his latitude must be at
perilous fluid into the soil; so the kindred rod which at sea some ships
philosophies from thee!  Some unknown conduits from the unknown worlds must
phosphorescence, like a far away constellation of stars.  Relieved against
pilot.  And when thou art so gone before --if that ever befall --then ere I
pitch-pot.  Away!  What possesses thee to this?  Make a life-buoy of the
pitched down her bowsprit, he turned to eye the bright sun's rays produced
place on the sea.  Aye, lighting from the boat to the deck, thus I
place, some merchantmen, and many whalemen, especially when cruising,
place, when Ahab, who had been intently watching for this result, stepped
placed the death-tube in its rack, and left the place.  He's too sound
plaintiveness, such inwreathing orisons curled up in that rosy air, that it
plausible confirmation in the fate of one of their number that morning.  At
point at best; whencesoe'er I came; wheresoe'er I go; yet while I earthly
policy, just as though it were loaded with powder barrels aft and boxes of
post.  Are they overboard?  drop them over, fore and aft.  Quick!  Avast!
precise meridian.  Meantime while his whole attention was absorbed, the Parsee
presaged.  They declared that now they knew the reason of those wild shrieks
professor in Queen Nature's granite-founded College; but methinks he's too
progression every hour.  It had been thus with the Pequod.  The wooden reel
promising an event should so soon have falsified the evil portents preceding
quadrant, the thunder turns the needles, and now the mad sea parts the
quarter-deck!  The greater idiot ever scolds the lesser, muttered Ahab,
queens, reigned over everything.  The sea was as a crucible of molten gold,
ran shuddering through the air.  Started from his slumbers, Ahab, face to
rays moved on in stacks.  Emblazonings, as of crowned Babylonian kings and
real stature, and seemed the black cloud from which the thunder had come.
reason why the grave-digger made music must
reason would leave me on the long intolerable voyage.  What, then, remains?
recognized by ahab for a nantucketer he knew.  But no formal salutation was
reefed, and a storm-trysail was set further aft; so that the ship soon went
reelingly hurled to the deck by its spasmodic motions, even though preventer
reflection in the vacant pupils of thy eyes.  Oh God!  that man should be a
reversed needles there, and horizontally suspended the sail-needle by its
rigging; but if thou art a brave man thou wilt hold thy peace.  But I am
right hand pressed hard upon them.] I own thy speechless, placeless power;
right side, fortune's favorites sail close by us, we, though all adroop
riots.  Forward, there!  Heave the log!  Two seamen came.  The golden-hued
rolled in long slow billows of mighty bulk, and striving in the Pequod's
ropes and hawsers; chained down to ring-bolts on this cabin floor; he would
round, quivering and vibrating at either end; but at last it settled to its
sacramental act so burned by thee, that to this hour I bear the scar; I now
sagged down in one long festoon; the tugging log was gone.  I crush the
said I not so?  Nor was it wrung from me; nor do I now drop these links.
said; and with fascinated eyes they awaited whatever magic might follow.  But
sailors, without some shudderings and evil portents.  Men, said he,
sails fill out.  So seemed it with the Pequod.  For next day after
sails; the whole world boomed before the wind.  Muffled in the full morning
same perilous seas, gropes he not his way by mere dead reckoning of the
saw a falling phantom in the air; and looking down, a little tossed heap of
saw the crushed copper sight-tubes of the quadrant he had the day before
saw the sun's rearward place, and how the same yellow rays were blending with
scene.  At last, when the ship drew near to the outskirts, as it were, of
sea roared and split with the thunder, and blazed with the lightning, that
sea!  But suddenly reined back by some counter thought, he hurried towards
sea, freighted with these vesper hymns.  Soothed again, but only soothed to
sea, in whose eternal tossings the wild fowl finds his only rest.  Born of
sea-coal ashes --mind ye that, Mr. Starbuck --sea-coal, not your common
see how pale he looks --pale in the very buttons of his eyes --look --it wasn't
seemed thereby bringing two remote associations together, for that vial was
seems but uncertain twilight to me.  Will ye never have done, Carpenter, with
seen; though she then paused to lower her spare boats to pull all around her;
semi-intelligent faces, seen peeringly uprising from the water alongside.  In
sensible, that's a fact.  And I am about drenched with this spray.  Never
several times, the mate still holding the rod as before.  Then going through
ship Ahab sails in, that ship should pay something extra on its insurance
ship's prow for the equator.  In good time the order came.  It was hard upon
ship's stern unprovided with a buoy, when by certain strange signs and
ship, the Rachel, was descried, bearing directly down upon the Pequod, all her
ships, But he only smacks his lips, A tastin' of this flip, -- Such a funny,
should see these too-favoring sights.  Look!  here, far water-locked; beyond
showed the disabled masts fluttering here and there with
sidelong-rushing sea.  The Manxman took the reel, and holding it high up, by
sideways impelled by unvarying trade winds, over waves monotonously mild;
sieve.  Bad work, bad work!  Mr. Starbuck, said Stubb, regarding the wreck,
sight of Stubb's face slowly beginning to glimmer into sight.  Glancing
sight that hardly any one can behold without some sort of unwonted emotion.
silence, Ahab stood apart; and every time the tetering ship loweringly
sing away, if thou must!  I don't half understand ye: what's in the wind?
sink, with all the crew!  Great God, where art thou?  Shall I?  shall I? --The
sir, said the frightened steersman.  Thou liest!  smiting him with his
sir; ship's-crier; ding, dong, ding!  Pip!  Pip!  Pip!  One hundred pounds
sky-sail poles, I'd sway them up now.  Sir? --in God's name! --sir?  Well.
slate the course steered by the ship, as well as the presumed average rate of
slender links, so as to be the more readily hauled up into the chains
slipping backward on the deck, his uplifted eyes caught the flames; and
slunk away.  In his fiery eyes of scorn and triumph, you then saw Ahab in all
snatching the burning harpoon, Ahab waved it like a torch among them;
so -- the coffin, I mean.  Dost thou hear me?  Rig it.  And shall I nail down
so long afloat this voyage, the log and line had but very seldom been in use.
so.  But Ahab is lord over the level load-stone
soliloquized Starbuck suddenly, heedless of Stubb's question.  The gale that
some moments stood, or sat, or leaned all transfixedly listening, like the
some small strange motions with it --whether indispensable to the magnetizing
sometimes go aloft in a transition state), whether it was thus with the man,
sounding-board; and what in all things makes the sounding-board is this
spars and rigging, the effect upon the needle has at times been still more
spars thickly clustering with men.  At the time the Pequod was making good
speak.  Sir, I mistrust it; this line looks far gone, long heat and wet
speak.  The yet levelled musket shook like a drunkard's arm against the panel;
spectacle observable in all sperm whales dying --the turning sunwards of the
speed through the water; but as the broad-winged windward stranger shot nigh
sperm-oil, d'ye see; and so, all that sperm will work up into the masts,
spirits.  Now, as it shortly turned out, what made this incident of the
spoiled thee?  Thou seem'st to hold.  Or, truer perhaps, life holds thee; not
sporty, gamy, jesty, joky, hoky-poky lad, is the Ocean, oh!  Avast Stubb,
steadily turning upon the crew, as the mate handed him the things he had
stealthily, and half sideways looking, he placed the loaded musket's end
steed.  Standing between the knight-heads, Starbuck watched the Pequod's
stepping, or running skeletons in Herculaneum, others remained rooted to the
storms, the Typhoon.  It will sometimes burst from out that cloudless sky,
stranger Captain immediately went on to reveal his object in boarding the
strength but render it so much the more unsafe, because so much the more a
strenuous exertions of Starbuck and Stubb --one engaged forward and the other
strike that?  Oh, none but cowards send down their brain-trucks in tempest
string of twisted oakum slowly unwinding from a large roll of it placed in the
subservient.  Where wert thou born?  In the little rocky Isle of Man, sir.
sudden, now; but squalls come sudden in hot latitudes.  I've heard that the
suffered to drag a whole ship's company down to doom with him? --Yes, it would
suffering man; and man, though idiotic, and knowing not what he does, yet
sufficient distance to gain the presumed place of the absent ones when last
sun and whale both stilly died together; then, such a sweetness and such
sun!  Level by nature to this earth's horizon are the glances of man's eyes;
sun-rise this man went from his hammock to his mast-head at the fore; and
superior, who'll ne'er confess.  What's that?  There now's a patched
superstitious feeling about seals, arising not only from their peculiar tones
superstitious old carpenters, now, would be tied up in the rigging, ere they
supposing we are loaded with powder barrels aft and lucifers forward; how
swashing sea heaved up under his own little craft, so that its gunwale
swearing to transfix with it the first sailor that but cast loose a rope's
tackles had been attached to it --for they were slack -- because some play to
takes me for the hunch-backed skipper of some coasting smack.  Send down my
taking his wonted daily obervation of the sun to determine his latitude.  Now,
tapering down that way, serve to carry off the water, d'ye see.  Same with
than are here.  come, then, to my cabin.  Lo!  ye believers in gods all
that I shall yet slay Moby Dick and survive it.  Take another pledge, old
that accursed fish. --The very tube he pointed at me! --the very one; this one
that accursed sound?  I go below; let me not see that thing here when I return
that bubblingly leaps with light and heat.  Long maintaining an enchanted
that he held, the men fell back in dismay, and Ahab again spoke: -- All
that precise instant.  Then falling into a moment's revery, he again looked
that still remains indifferent.  Oh, thou clear spirit, of thy fire thou
that the stricken whale must have indefinitely run away with his pursuers, as
that!  Ding, dong, ding!  Who's seen Pip the coward?  There can be no hearts
that's the reason I never would work for lonely widow old women ashore, when
the Captain's sons among the number of the missing boat's crew; but among the
the Equatorial fishing-ground, and in the deep darkness that goes before the
the Parsee; and with fixed upward eye, and high-flung right arm, he stood
the affairs of the deck, --Starbuck had no sooner trimmed the yards to the
the after bulwarks.  Rains and spray had damped it; the sun and wind had
the arched and overhanging rigging, where they had just been engaged securing
the beginning at the end.  It's the old woman's tricks to be giving cobbling
the coat --it must have been the-- My boy, my own boy is among them.  For
the conclusion; not a cobbler's job, that's at an end in the middle, and at
the deck here.  Thou know'st what to say.
the deck in rolling reveries.  But chancing to slip with his ivory heel, he
the devil could the lucifers get afire in this drenching spray here?  Why, my
the distance he saw the diminished dotted boat; and then a swift gleam of
the elements.  The loaded muskets in the rack were shiningly revealed, as
the flames!  Oh, thou magnanimous!  now do I glory in my genealogy.  But thou
the forecastle, till Ahab, troubledly pacing the deck, shouted out -- To the
the ghostly light, the gigantic jet negro, Daggoo, loomed up to thrice his
the helm, huskily demanding how the ship was heading.  East-sou-east,
the last men in a flooded world.  I have dreamed it again, said he.  Of the
the lid, sir?  moving his hand as with a hammer.  aye.  And shall I caulk
the moaning in squadrons over Asphaltites of unforgiven ghosts of Gomorrah,
the needles in the compasses, at intervals, go round and round.  It was thus
the needles were exactly inverted, shouted out his orders for the ship's
the old Manx sailor standing behind them; I heard; all of ye heard their
the other side now.  I don't like this cobbling sort of business --I don't like
the projecting handle-ends of the spindle, round which the spool
the rags which the first fury of the tempest had left for its after sport.
the rods!  cried Starbuck to the crew, suddenly admonished to vigilance by
the sail-maker's needles.  Quick!  Accessory, perhaps, to the impulse
the same with pitch; batten them down tight, and hang it with the snap-spring
the sea, under certain circumstances, seals have more than once been mistaken
the sea-chariot of the sun.  Ho, ho!  all ye nations before my prow, I bring
the seams, sir?  moving his hand as with a caulking-iron.  Aye.  And shall
the ship half-wheeled
the slumbering crew arose from the boat's bottom, and ere noon the dead whale
the stranger captain himself, having stopped his vessel's way, was seen
the sun to ye!  Yoke on the further billows; hallo!  a tandem, I drive the
the things that cast man's eyes aloft to that heaven, whose live vividness
the tiller was indispensable.  In a severe gale like this, while the ship is
the vault.  Sir?  The hatchway?  oh!  So it does, sir, so it does.  Art
the vice-bench and the open hatchway; the Carpenter calking its seams; the
the vigilant helmsman would ostentatiously handle his spokes, and the eager
the vivid lightning that had just been darting flambeaux, to light Ahab to his
the whale, and tapped the light cedar planks with their tails.  A sound like
the wild thrilling sounds that were heard, were the voices of newly drowned
the wind seemed coming round astern; aye!  the foul breeze became fair!
the windward quarter boat (Ahab's) did not escape.  A great rolling sea,
the yards, while we may, old man, and make a fair wind of it homewards, to
thee, thou sun!  Then gazing at his quadrant, and handling, one after the
thee: no!  not one jot more!  Thou canst not tell where one drop of water or
their congenial hearts from inflexible Ahab's.  For a space the old man walked
then, instantly, the reel began to whirl.  In turn, jerkingly raised and
then?  i've part changed my flesh since that time, why not my mind?  Besides,
there is now no telling; but, be that as it may, he had not been long at
there no other way?  no lawful way? --Make him a prisoner to be taken home?
there.  In the Isle of Man, hey?  Well, the other way, it's good.  Here's a
these anchors now as if they were never going to be used again.  tying these
these resplendent Japanese seas the mariner encounters the direst of all
they had heard the night before.  But again the old Manxman said nay.  The
they peered in, for nothing but their own
they stood upright against the forward bulkhead.  Starbuck was an honest,
they will, still.  But do they only have mercy on long faces? --have they no
thine?  And who are hearsed that die on the sea?  But I said, old man, that
thing for immortal souls to sieve through!  Who art thou, boy?  Bell-boy,
think. --I come to report a fair wind to him.  But how fair?  Fair for death
thinkest thou now, man; I heard thy cry; it was not the same in the song.
this event, at least as a portent; for they regarded it, not as a
this hand complies with my humor more genially than that boy. -- Middle aisle
this luckless child, and have abandoned him, ye creative libertines.  Here,
this way and that --was burning fitfully, and casting fitful shadows upon the
this way.  A touch, and Starbuck may survive to hug his wife and child
thou a silk-worm?  Dost thou spin thy own shroud out of thyself?  Look at thy
thou canst but kill; and all are killed.  No fearless fool now fronts thee.
thou canst not die till it be seen, old man.  And what was that saying about
thou crazy loon, cried the Manxman, seizing him by the arm.  Away from the
thou done with her?  There lies my puzzle; but thine is greater.  Thou knowest
thou it.  I hold the spool, sir.  But just as my captain says.  With these
thou not also the undertaker?  Aye, sir; I patched up this thing here as a
thou tell where some other thing besides me is this moment living?  Where is
thou thyself happenest to be on this wide planet, and the hand that holds
though thou launchest navies of full-freighted worlds, there's that in here
thought of that at the time.  Indeed, in some sort, they were not grieved at
thoughts, Starbuck said nothing, but quietly he issued all requisite orders;
thrice their previous height; Ahab, with the rest, closes his eyes, his
through the water with some precision again; and the course --for the present,
thunder?  Um, um, um.  We don't want thunder; we want rum; give us a glass
thus marred or lost; and if the binnacle compasses be affected, the same
thus the first man of the pequod that mounted the mast to look out for the
thy creativeness mechanical.  Through thee, thy flaming self, my scorched
thyself?  Though it come to the last, I shall still go before thee thy
time, to increase her distance from it.  But the rest of her crew being at
time.  What a hooroosh aloft there!  I would e'en take it for sublime, did I
tinkerings; we are their betters.  I like to take in hand none but clean,
tipped with a pallid fire; and touched at each tri-pointed lightning-rod-end
to Flask, that some one in that missing boat wore off that Captain's best
to her, the boastful sails all fell together as blank bladders that are
to leeward, homeward --I see it lightens up there; but not with the
to pick up her three far to windward boats --ere going in quest of the fourth
to stop my singing
to the helmsman.  For during the violence of the gale, he had only steered
to traditions no rocks furnish tablets; where for long Chinese ages, the
together, and hung pendulous, like a knot of numbed wasps from a drooping,
told?  But I've forgotten.  Any way, I'll have me thirty separate,
tongue, Starbuck grasped Ahab by the arm -- God, God is against thee, old
too hast thy incommunicable riddle, thy unparticipated grief.  Here again with
tormented flaming life; and I have seen it wane at last, down, down, to
tormented sleep, as if Starbuck's voice had caused the long dumb dream to
touchest my inmost centre, boy; thou art tied to me by cords woven of my
trample on thee, thou paltry thing that feebly pointest on high; thus I split
tumultuous way, and Ahab's also, as he went lurching along the deck.  I
tune this heart beats;
two anchors here, Flask, seems like tying a man's hands behind him.  And what
unaccompanied with hinted dark meanings.  He hollowly laughed, and thus
unappalled.  Yet the grey Manxman --the oldest mariner of all -- declared that
unexpected question; and would then have fain boarded the stranger, when
unimpressed; or if impressed, it was only with a certain magnetism shot into
unnamable imminglings, float beneath me here; I am buoyed by breaths of once
unstaggering breeze abounded so, that sky and air seemed vast outbellying
unverdured seas; thou art an infidel, thou queen, and too truly speakest to
up to my table-lands yet.  Quick, and see to it. --By masts and keels!  he
up towards the sun and murmured to himself: Thou sea-mark!  thou high and
upon a beach.  Ahab and all his boat's crew seemed asleep but the Parsee; who
upon her heel, her three firm-seated graceful masts erectly poised upon her
upon the Niger's unknown source; here, too, life dies sunwards full of
upon the reel, not many hours after the magnet scene, and he remembered how
upper panels.  The isolated subterraneousness of the cabin made a certain
upright man; but out of Starbuck's heart, at that instant when he saw the
upwards, he cried: See!  see!  and once more the high tapering flames were
violently jammed his hand, as he was passing a lashing.  Blast it! --but
virgin, fair-and-square mathematical jobs, something that regularly begins
war is pain, and hate is woe.  Come in thy lowest form of love, and I will
warped it; all the elements had combined to rot a thing that hung so idly.
was brought to the ship.
was furnished with colored glasses, through which to take sight of that solar
watching his final wanings from the now tranquil boat.  For that strange
water.  A hatchet!  a hatchet!  cut it off -- we haul in no cowards here.
way --come, oakum; quick.  Here we go again.  This wooden mallet is the cork,
whale-boat adrift?  Throttling his joy, Ahab negatively answered this
whale-boat.  pip's missing.  let's see now if ye haven't fished him up here,
whatever that might prove to be; therefore, they were going to leave the
when its lightning strikes a would-be murderer in his bed, tindering sheets
where I am --but canst thou cast the least hint where I shall be?  Or canst
whether it was that he was not yet half waked from his sleep (for sailors
which is sucked in --by what?  Up with the reel!  The dead, blind wall butts
white bubbles in the blue of the sea.  The life-buoy --a long slender cask --was
white, for I will not let this go.
who thus far had but icily received his petition.  For eight-and-forty hours
wholly neglect to heave the log; though at the same time, and frequently more
whose object might have been to revive the spirits of his crew by a stroke of
will I guide my earthly way by thee; the level ship's compass, and the level
will ye?  Thank ye.  They laugh at long-togs so, Flask; but seems to me, a
wind has gone down and shifted, sir; the fore and main topsails are reefed
winds, and this brain-truck of mine now sails amid the cloud-scud.  Shall I
with a small lightning-rod running up the corner of his hat, like a militia
with half an eye can be sensible.  I don't know that, Stubb.  You sometimes
with the oblique energy of the wind, was now almost dipping into the creamy,
with thee; I burn with thee; would fain be welded with thee; defyingly I
with three tapering white flames, each of the three tall masts was silently
world it runs, and then comes the spring!  But as for me, all the start I
worship thee!  The boat!  the boat!  cried Starbuck, look at thy boat, old
would be liable to many mishaps, besides interfering not a little with some
would do the job.  But I'm made of knotty Aroostook hemlock; I don't budge.
would have no lightning-rods?  But shall this crazed old man be tamely
ye the doxology for a wind-up.  Madman!  look through my eyes if thou hast
yet.  Mr. Starbuck--a lance without a pole; a top-maul, and the smallest of
you King-Post, you, I suppose you would have every man in the world go about
your oaths to hunt the White Whale are as binding as mine; and heart, soul,
yourself; you're Aquarius, or the water-bearer, Flask; might fill pitchers
