





















































     But come, it's getting dreadful late, you had better be turning flukes --it's
     But here is an artist.  He desires to paint you the dreamiest, shadiest,
     Call me Ishmael.  Some years ago--never mind how
     Come on, Queequeg, said I, all right.  There's Mrs. Hussey.
     Do you pretend to say, landlord, that this harpooneer is actually engaged
     Don't be afraid now, said he, grinning again.  Queequeg here wouldn't harm
     Dropping his harpoon, the brawny savage caught him in his arms, and by an
     Entering that gable-ended Spouter-Inn,
     Father Mapple rose, and in a mild voice of
     For the instant he almost turns to flee again.  But he rallies.  "I seek a
     For this reason a sleeping apartment should never be furnished with a fire,
     Grub, ho!  now cried the landlord, flinging open a door, and in we went to
     Hallo, you sir, cried the Captain, a gaunt rib of the sea, stalking up to
     He rings every coin to find a counterfeit.  Not a forger, any way, he mutters;
     He say, said I, that you came near kill-e that man there, pointing to the
     He skulks about the wharves of Joppa, and seeks a ship that's bound for
     I had not been seated very long ere a man
     I quickly followed suit, and descending into
     I stuffed a shirt or two into my old
     I succeeded in extracting a grunt; and presently, he drew back his arm,
     If I had been astonished at first catching a
     In this same New Bedford there stands a
     It was quite late in the evening when the
     Landlord, said I, going up to him as cool as Mt.  Hecla in a snow storm,
     Nothing more happened on the passage worthy
     Queequeg was a native of Kokovoko, an
     Queequeg! --but his only answer was a snore.  I then rolled over, my neck
     Returning to the Spouter-Inn from the
     Right and left, the streets take you waterward.  Its extreme down-town is
     Stepping to the kitchen door, I uttered the word cod with great emphasis,
     That ship, my friends, was the first of recorded smugglers!  the contraband
     This is my substitute for pistol and ball.  With a philosophical flourish
     Upon waking next morning about daylight,
     We had lain thus in bed, chatting and
     With heads to be sure; ain't there too many heads in the world?  I tell
     Woe to him who, in this world, courts not dishonor!  Woe to him who would not
     and Jonah is put down for his passage.  "Point out my state-room, Sir," says
     and self-created darkness into the imposed and coarse outer gloom of the
     and without a passport; whereas Virtue, if a pauper, is stopped at all
     clam for two, disappeared.  Queequeg, said I, do you think that we can
     deep itself.  The Nantucketer, he alone resides and riots on the sea; he
     hand, whereas I had understood Peter Coffin to say it was on the starboard.
     himself with this, that spite of all his pains and pangs, he will still
     his sake this great tempest was upon them; they mercifully turn from him,
     infallibly straight itself, it but made obvious the false, lying levels
     that they are so shut up, belted about, every way inclosed, surrounded, and
     the island.  On one side was a coral reef; on the other a low tongue of
     the whale shall hold him in the smallest of his bowel's wards.  Screwed at
     what you tink now, --Didn't our people laugh?  At last, passage paid, and
     wheelbarrow next morning, Monday, after disposing of
     which a noah's flood would not interrupt, though it overwhelmed all the
-- The Spouter-Inn: --Peter Coffin.  Coffin? --Spouter? --Rather ominous in that
-- The ribs and terrors in the whale, Arched over me a dismal gloom, While
-- he hunted up his boots.  What under the heavens he did it for, I cannot
-- landlord, stop whittling.  You and I must understand one another, and
--chiefly known to me by Thy rod --mortal or immortal, here I die.  I have
--here, here lies my beloved; ye know not the desolation that broods in bosoms
--the Tyre of this Carthage; --the place where the first dead American whale
--top-gallant delight is to him, who acknowledges no law or lord, but the
--under the bed; when, from sundry violent
--yes, he's the bird what catches the worm. --But to-night he went out a
.  This Marble Is
.  This Tablet Is erected to his
.. < chapter I 2  LOOMINGS >
.. < chapter X 24  A BOSOM FRIEND >
.. < chapter ii 24  THE CARPET-BAG >
.. < chapter iii 14  THE SPOUTER-INN >
.. < chapter iv 2  THE COUNTERPANE >
.. < chapter ix 23  THE SERMON >
.. < chapter v 5  BREAKFAST >
.. < chapter vi 11  THE STREET >
.. < chapter vii 26  THE CHAPEL >
.. < chapter viii 2  THE PULPIT >
.. < chapter xi 24  NIGHTGOWN >
.. < chapter xii 21  BIOGRAPHICAL >
.. < chapter xiii 2  WHEELBARROW >
.. < chapter xiv 23  NANTUCKET >
.. < chapter xv 27  CHOWDER >
.. <p 10 >
.. <p 10 >
.. <p 11 >
.. <p 12 >
.. <p 13 >
.. <p 14 >
.. <p 15 >
.. <p 16 >
.. <p 17 >
.. <p 18 >
.. <p 19 >
.. <p 2 >
.. <p 20 >
.. <p 21 >
.. <p 22 >
.. <p 23 >
.. <p 24 >
.. <p 25 >
.. <p 26 >
.. <p 27 >
.. <p 28 >
.. <p 29 >
.. <p 29 >
.. <p 3 >
.. <p 30 >
.. <p 31 >
.. <p 31 >
.. <p 32 >
.. <p 33 >
.. <p 34 >
.. <p 35 >
.. <p 36 >
.. <p 37 >
.. <p 38 >
.. <p 39 >
.. <p 4 >
.. <p 40 >
.. <p 41 >
.. <p 42 >
.. <p 43 >
.. <p 44 >
.. <p 45 >
.. <p 46 >
.. <p 47 >
.. <p 48 >
.. <p 48 >
.. <p 49 >
.. <p 5 >
.. <p 50 >
.. <p 51 >
.. <p 52 >
.. <p 52 >
.. <p 53 >
.. <p 54 >
.. <p 54 >
.. <p 55 >
.. <p 56 >
.. <p 57 >
.. <p 58 >
.. <p 59 >
.. <p 6 >
.. <p 6 >
.. <p 60 >
.. <p 61 >
.. <p 61 >
.. <p 62 >
.. <p 63 >
.. <p 63 >
.. <p 64 >
.. <p 65 >
.. <p 66 >
.. <p 7 >
.. <p 8 >
.. <p 9 >
Affghanistan.  Though I cannot tell why it was exactly that those stage
Africa, which was the sum of poor Mungo's performances -- this kind of travel,
After
Almighty's bidding.  And what was that, shipmates?  To preach the Truth to the
And so it turned out; Mr. Hosea Hussey being from home, but leaving Mrs.
Any subsequent copies of this data must include this notice  
At last, he emerged with his hat very much dented and crushed down over his
Atlantic, Pacific, and Indian oceans.  One and all, they were harpooned and
Bedford.  It was on a Saturday night in December.  Much was I disappointed
Between the marble cenotaphs on either hand of the pulpit, the wall which
Brighggians, and, besides the wild specimens of the whaling-craft which
Broadway and Chestnut streets, Mediterranean mariners will sometimes jostle
Bulkington!  Bulkington!  where's Bulkington?  and darted out of the house in
But that was certainly very coolly done by him, and every
But though the other boarders kept coming in by ones, twos, and threes, and
Canaan; a land, also, of corn and wine.  The streets do not run with milk;
Captain in the cabin, all the sailors for the moment desist from hoisting in
Captain laughs lowly to himself, and mutters something about the doors of
Cato throws himself upon his sword; I quietly take to the ship.  There is
Chapel, I found Queequeg there quite alone; he having left the Chapel before
Christian would have washed his face; but Queequeg, to my amazement,
Christians could be both miserable and wicked; infinitely more so, than all
Church.  How then could I unite with
Commodore, or a Captain, or a Cook.  I abandon the glory and distinction of
Crossed Harpoons, and The Sword-Fish? --this, then, must needs be the sign
Crossing this dusky entry, and on through yon low-arched way --cut through
Delightful inducements to embark, fine chance for promotion, it seems -- aye,
Desolation, off Patagonia, November 1st,
Dives, this is more wonderful than that an iceberg should be moored to one of
Eddystone lighthouse.  Look at it --a mere hillock, and elbow of sand; all
England hags, had endeavored to delineate chaos bewitched.  But by dint of
English overswarm all India, and hang out their blazing banner from the sun;
Entering, I found a small scattered congregation of sailors, and sailors'
Eternity.  But what then?  Methinks we have hugely mistaken this matter of
Etymology  (Supplied by a late consumptive usher to a grammar school.)
Extracts (supplied by a sub-sub-librarian.)
Fill to this mark, and your charge is but a penny; to this a penny more;
For by how much the more pains ye take to please the world,
God came upon him in the whale, and swallowed him down to living gulfs of
God of breezes fair or foul is first invoked for favorable winds.  Yes, the
God.  Now, Queequeg is my fellow man.  And what do I wish that this Queequeg
He answered no, not yet; and added that he was fearful Christianity, or
He drooped and fell away from himself for a moment; then lifting his face to
He loved to dust his old grammars; it somehow mildly reminded him of his mortality.
He now took off his hat --a new beaver hat --when I came nigh singing out with
He seemed to take to me quite as naturally and unbiddenly as I to him; and
He was ever  dusting his old lexicons and grammars, with a queer handkerchief,
His father was a High Chief, a King; his uncle a High Priest; and on the
Horn, that is --which was the only way he could get there --thrown among people
How then is this?  Are the green fields gone?  What do they here?  But look!
However, by dint of beating about a little in the dark, and now and then
Hussey entirely competent to attend to all his affairs.  Upon making known our
Hussey hurried towards an open door leading to the kitchen, and bawling out
Hussey's clam and cod announcement, I thought I would try a little experiment.
I began to be sensible of strange feelings.  I felt a melting in me.  No
I bolted a dinner.  Even as it was, I thought something of slipping out of the
I called my God, When I could scarce believe him mine, He bowed his ear to my
I cannot say much for his breeding.  His greatest admirer could not have
I concluded that it must be nothing but a wooden idol, which indeed it
I found Queequeg's arm thrown over me in the most loving and affectionate
I guess he's the adulterer that broke jail in old Gomorrah, or belike, one of
I had found thrown over me upon waking in the morning, I thought this
I kill-e!  again growled the cannibal, while his horrid flourishings of the
I observed that he carried no umbrella, and certainly had not come in his
I say, may not be the very best mode of attaining a high social polish.
I told him that I never liked to sleep two in a bed; that if I should ever do
I told him that whaling was my own design, and informed him of my intention
I well remember a somewhat similar circumstance that befell me; whether it
I, Queequeg, you might have known better than that, one would think.  Didn't
Iceland --no fire at all  --the landlord said he couldn't afford it.  Nothing
Ignorance is the parent of fear, and being completely nonplussed and
In what census of living creatures, the dead of mankind are included; why it
Indian Ocean or Pacific, who fail to make a Sunday visit to the spot.  I am
Insurance Companies pay death-forfeitures upon immortals; in what eternal,
Ishmael, said I at last; don't you hear?  get away from before the door;
It was prepared by Professor Eugene F. Irey at the University of Colorado.
It will be seen that this mere painstaking burrower and grubworm of a poor 
Johnny in the foot of it.  But I got a dreaming and sprawling about one night,
Jonah -- And God had prepared a great fish to swallow up Jonah.  Shipmates,
Jonah before you to be copied for his sin but I do place him before you as a
Jonah fairly takes out his purse, prudent suspicions still molest the Captain.
Jonah now.  "I'm travel-weary; I need sleep." "Thou look'st like it," says
Jonah sees the rearing bowsprit pointing high upward, but soon beat downward
Jonah's prodigy of ponderous misery drags him drowning down to sleep.  And
Jonah.  While he was speaking these words, the howling of the shrieking,
Joppa, the modern Jaffa, shipmates, is on the most easterly coast of the
Joppa.  But God is everywhere; Tarshish he never reached.  As we have seen,
King's own house --the Captain coolly proceeds to wash his hands in the punch
Ledyard, the great New England traveller, and Mungo Park, the Scotch one; of
Life and Death.  Methinks that what they call my shadow here on earth is my
Look now at the wondrous traditional story of how this island was settled by
Look there!  that chap strutting round the corner.  He wears a beaver hat and
Lord came a second time; and Jonah, bruised and beaten --his ears, like two
Lord his God, and is only a patriot to heaven.  Delight is to him, whom all
Mapple enjoyed such a wide reputation for sincerity and sanctity, that I
Mastodon, clothed with such portentousness of unconscious power, that his
Meanwhile, I lay quietly eyeing him, having no serious misgivings now, and
Meanwhile, he continued the business of undressing, and at last showed his
Mediterranean, the Syrian; and Tarshish or Cadiz more than two thousand miles
Memory By his Sister.  Sacred To the Memory of Robert Long, Willis Ellery,
Midships!  midships!  There was a low rumbling of heavy sea-boots among the
My sensations were strange.  Let me try to explain them.  When I was a child,
Nantucket are carried about like bits of the true cross in Rome; that people
Nantucket!  Take out your map and look at it.  See what a real corner of the
Nathan Coleman, Walter Canny, Seth Macy, and Samuel Gleig, Forming one of the
Nevertheless, a man like Queequeg you don't see every day, he and his ways
New Zealand head --a ghastly thing enough --and crammed it down into the bag.
Niagara but a cataract of sand, would you travel your thousand miles to see
No, thought I, there must be some sober reason for this thing; furthermore,
No.  They must get just as nigh the water as they possibly can without falling
Oh, sweet friends!  hearken to me.  It was made of small juicy clams, scarcely
One young fellow in a green box coat, addressed himself to these dumplings in
Pacific.  Quitting the good city of old Manhatto, I duly arrived in New
Pagan, which even his uncouthness could not altogether maim.  He looked like
Parliament sitting in Tophet.  A hundred black faces turned round in their
Placing these on the old chest in the middle of the room, he then took the
Poland.  Let America add Mexico to Texas, and pile Cuba upon Canada; let the
Prairies in June,
Preliminary Matter.  
Projecting from the further angle of the room stands a dark-looking den --the
Puritanic sands.
Queequeg made, staving about with little else but his hat and boots on; I
Queequeg no kill-e so small-e fish-e; Queequeg kill-e big whale!  Look you,
Queequeg smoking by me, even in bed, because he seemed to be full of such
Queequeg, for his own private reasons, preferred his own harpoon.  Shifting
Queequeg, what in thunder do you mean by that?  Don't you know you might have
Queequeg?  which, barred with various tints, seemed like the Andes' western
Remembering the embalmed head, at first I almost thought that this black
Rensselaers, or Randolphs, or Hardicanutes.  And more than all, if just
Rokovoko, and its commander --from all accounts, a very stately punctilious
Saco.  What is the chief element he employs?  There stand his trees, each with
Sacred To the Memory of The late Captain Ezekiel Hardy, Who in the bows of
Saturday night clean into the holy Sabbath, engaged in such a cannibal
Shipmates, it is a two-stranded lesson; a lesson to us all as sinful men,
So fare thee well, poor devil of a Sub-Sub, whose commentator I am.
Some were storied weapons.  With this once long lance, now wildly elbowed,
Spain; as far by water, from Joppa, as Jonah could possibly have sailed in
Still New Bedford is a queer place.  Had it not been for us whalemen, that
Still, for the most part, that sort of thing is to be had anywhere.  These
Strong intuitions of the man assure the mariners he can be no innocent.  In
Supper 'll be ready directly.  I sat down on an old wooden settle, carved all
Supper over, the company went back to the bar-room, when, knowing not what
Surely all this is not without meaning.  And still deeper the meaning of that
Talbot, Who, at the age of eighteen, was lost overboard, Near the Isle of
Tarshish.  There lurks, perhaps, a hitherto unheeded meaning here.  By all
Tartar air! --how I spurned that turnpike earth! --that common highway all over
Testament?  Do you think the archangel Gabriel thinks anything the less of me,
The face of my Deliverer God.  My song for ever shall record That terrible,
The landlord of the Spouter-Inn had recommended us to his cousin Hosea Hussey
The original iron entered
The pale Ushei{rthreadbare} in coat, heart, body, and brain; I see him now.
Then the wild and distant seas where he rolled his island bulk; the
There was excellent blood in his veins --royal stuff; though
There weekly arrive in this town scores of green Vermonters and New Hampshire
There's plenty room for two to kick about in that bed; it's an almighty big
Therefore you must not, in every case at least, take the higgledy-piggledy
They had just landed from their boat, and this was the first house they
This Tablet Is erected to his Memory by His Widow.  Shaking off the sleet
This being told to Queequeg, he at once complied, and again politely motioned
This text of Melville's Moby-Dick is based on the Hendricks House edition.
Thou belongest to that hopeless, sallow tribe which no wine of this world will 
Thought he, it's a wicked world in all meridians; I'll die a pagan.
Throwing aside the counterpane, there lay the tomahawk sleeping by the
United States.  Whaling Voyage by one Ishmael.  Bloody Battle in
Washington's head, as seen in the popular busts of him.  It had the same long
Watch!  Coffin!  Angels!  save me!  Speak-e!  tell-ee me who-ee be, or dam-me,
Whaleman's Chapel, and few are the moody fishermen, shortly bound for the
Whitehall northward.  What do you see?--Posted like silent sentinels all
Would that I could clear out Hampton Court and the Tuileries for ye!  But
Yes, Ishmael, the same fate may be thine.  But somehow I grew merry again.
Yet here they all unite.  Tell me, does the magnetic virtue of the needles of
You cannot hide the soul.  Through all his unearthly tattooings, I thought I
You must go to New Bedford to see a brilliant wedding; for, they say, they
Zealand heads (great curios, you know), and he's sold all on 'em but one,
a Hebrew," he cries --and then --"I fear the Lord the God of Heaven who hath
a bit of glass stuck against the wall, and I never saw such a sight in my
a bitter cold morning.  Seeing, now, that there were no curtains to the window,
a chap is he --does he always keep such late hours?  It was now hard upon
a choice resulting from my own unbiased freewill and discriminating judgment.
a dive.  Strange!  Nothing will content them but the extremest limit of the
a door mat, and parade the streets of any Christian town in that sort of
a hair of your head.  Stop your grinning, shouted I, and why didn't you
a hard command.  But all the things that God would have us do are hard for us
a harpooneer, then your objections indefinitely multiply.  Nor was there any
a hollow trunk, as if a hermit and a crucifix were within; and here sleeps
a large number of fifties being found together, that his astonishment at the
a little plan that had occurred to me just previous to the entrance of the
a man smoking in bed with me.  It's dangerous.  Besides, I aint insured.
a man who had never cringed and never had had a creditor.  Whether it was,
a masterless commotion that he scarce heeds the moment when he drops seething
a most direful manner.  My boy, said the landlord, you'll have the
a nice bed: Sal and me slept in that ere bed the night we were spliced.
a noble thing is that canticle in the fish's belly!  How billow-like and
a perpendicular side ladder, like those used in mounting
a sailor, because of the wholesome exercise and pure air of the forecastle
a ship --as having plain precedence over a mere island King, especially in the
a ship from a boat at sea.  The wife of a whaling captain had provided the
a stove boat will make me an immortal by brevet.  Yes, there is death in this
a sure delight; and higher the top of that delight, than the bottom of the
a tomahawk!  Queequeg! --in the name of goodness, Queequeg, wake!  At length,
a whalin', so you'd better get used to that sort of thing.
a wicked nineveh, jonah, appalled at the hostility he should raise, fled from
aboard of a whaleman in the South Seas, and so landed in this Christian
about
about in the most unnatural manner.  At last extinguishing the fire, he took
about keeping a yellow warehouse on our starboard hand till we opened a white
about that harpooneer. -- I shan't sleep with him.  I'll try the bench here.
about the thing --though in truth he was entirely so, concerning the precise
about us!  But what is this lesson that the book of Jonah teaches?
abreast.  There, said the landlord, placing the candle on a crazy old sea
accommodated with a room, received for answer that his house was full --not a
accounts Tarshish could have been no other city than the modern Cadiz.  That's
accustomed to boots, his pair of damp, wrinkled cowhide ones -- probably not
act of paying is perhaps the most uncomfortable infliction that the two
advertised, they let him pass, and he descends into the cabin.  "Who's
afternoon of the 21st June, the longest day in the year in our hemisphere.  I
afternoon.  Go from Corlears Hook to Coenties Slip, and from thence, by
again and go to sleep.  Queequeg, look here --you sabbee me, I sabbee you --this
again towards the tormented deep.  Terrors upon terrors run shouting through
again, and every eye on the preacher.  He paused a little; then kneeling in
against the spile upon the wharf to which the ship is moored, offering five
against this unknown harpooneer.  Thinks I, I'll wait awhile; he must be
air over me from under the sill of the window, that this plan would never do
air, the beautiful and bountiful horse-chestnuts, candelabra-wise, proffer
air; then slightly
all God's sun-lit waves rolled by, And lift me deepening down to doom.  I saw
all glittering in the clear, cold air.  Huge hills and mountains of casks on
all men, they possessed the least assurance in the parlor.  But perhaps the
all outward worldly ties and connexions?  Yes, for replenished with the meat
all seated at the table, and I was preparing to hear some good stories about
all that region.  Should you ever be athirst in the great American desert,
all, down the throat of the tempest.  But think not that this famous town has
almost drive beneath it.  within are shabby shelves, ranged round with old
almost in one ticking of a watch, and every instant seemed on the point of
almost miraculous dexterity and strength, sent him high up bodily into the
alone, in Bible language, goes down to it in ships; to and fro ploughing it
already small area of the chapel, the architect, it seemed, had acted upon the
altogether unwarranted.  But what most puzzled and confounded you was a long,
among which it hung.  The lamp alarms and frightens Jonah; as lying in his
among whom he was a very great favorite.  He had been a sailor and a
an ash-box in the porch.  Ha!  thought I, ha, as the flying particles almost
an excellent one.  It may seem ridiculous, but it reminded me of General
an unknown stranger, in a strange inn, in a strange town, and that stranger
and a lesson to me as a pilot of the living God.  As sinful men, it is a
and any publications resulting from analysis of this data must
and ashes a little, he made a polite offer of it to the little negro.  But the
and at Bombay, in the Apollo Green, live Yankees have often scared the
and bear it.  But even this wears off in time.  What of it, if some old hunks
and bland deceits.  Wild he was; a very sight of sights to see; yet I began
and bowing his head lowly, with an aspect of the deepest yet manliest
and centre of all verdure.  Queequeg caught one of these young saplings
and cheerless.  I knew no one in the place.  With anxious grapnels I had
and earth --pagans and all included --can possibly be jealous of an
and earth; and"vomited out Jonah upon the dry land;" when the word of the
and easy parts in genteel comedies, and jolly parts in farces --though I
and every plank thunders with trampling feet right over Jonah's head; in all
and finding no speedy vent runs roaring fore and aft, till the mariners come
and gardens more opulent, than in New Bedford.  Whence came they?  how planted
and grow convivial upon tears; and say to them bluntly, with full eyes and empty 
and hints, doing my best to talk with him meanwhile.  At first he little
and it's a plaguy rough board here --feeling of the knots and notches.  But
and jolly, again thought I, pausing one moment to watch the broad glare in
and making refugees of long-pampered  Gabriel, Michael, and Raphael, against
and more awful lesson which Jonah teaches to me as a pilot of
and my stepmother who, somehow or other, was all the time whipping me, or
and offered a prayer so deeply devout that he seemed kneeling and praying at
and put a corn-cob into his mouth, and yet that would not keep out the
and requires a strong decoction of Seneca and the Stoics to enable you to grin
and resumed my seat.  In a few moments the savory steam came forth again, but
and run away with by a whale, years afterward slain off the Cape of Blanco.
and seek by other means to save the ship.  But all in vain; the indignant
and smoke, we went to our room together.  He made me a present of his
and snug, the more so since it was so chilly out of doors; indeed out of
and so on to the full glass --the Cape Horn measure, which you may gulp down
and somehow, Sam got pitched on the floor, and came near breaking his arm.
and still more to me, for I am a greater sinner than ye.  And now how gladly
and that one he's trying to sell to-night, cause to-morrow's Sunday, and it
and that the street being very narrow, the house opposite commanded a plain
and then flinging the other like a lasso, caught it round the boom as it swept
and then proceeded to wash himself.  At that time in the morning any
and then stopping to adjust the sheath on his harpoon barbs.  I asked him why
and there's naught to staunch it; so, after sore wrestlings in his berth,
and thus an old idolator at heart, he yet lived among these Christians, wore
and tomahawk, he quietly offered me a puff.  And then we sat exchanging puffs
and we felt like getting up again, though day-break was yet some way down the
and wine of the word, to the faithful man of God, this pulpit, I see, is a
and woe to that pilot of the living God who slights it.  Woe to him whom this
another cursed Jonah (by which name indeed they called him), bustles a
another grin, and throwing them into the great stove in the middle of the
another with a sou'-wester and a bombazine cloak.  No town-bred dandy will
answer is forced from Jonah by the hard hand of God that is upon him.  "I am
answered, generally he's an early bird -- airley to bed and airley to rise
answered.  Yes; all these brave houses and flowery gardens came from the
apartment to myself.  Thinks I, Queequeg, under the circumstances, this is a
are in the country; in some high land of lakes.  Take almost any path you
are not without their meanings.  But Faith, like a jackal, feeds among the
are pitiful.  For when Jonah, not yet supplicating God for mercy, since he
arm of his tattooed all over with an interminable Cretan labyrinth of a
around him, seemed to be saying to himself -- It's a mutual, joint-stock
around the town, stand thousands upon thousands of mortal men fixed in ocean
around this town?  That's precisely it, said the landlord, and I told him
arrayed in a decent suit, he quietly approached the pulpit.  Like most old
as I was, and remembering what the landlord said about the harpooneer's not
as affording a glancing bird's eye view of what has been promiscuously said,
as an anchor and dropped into the sea; when instantly an oily calmness floats
as carelessly as if he were a sportsman bagging a dead woodcock.  All these
as he was, he still hugged me tightly, as though naught but death should part
as his own special plantation.  There is his home; there lies his business,
as if it were the lower jaw of an exasperated whale.  In the midst of this
as strange to him as though he were in the planet Jupiter; and yet he seemed
as the poets here appearing, these extracts are solely valuable or entertaining,
as though they were drawing nigh the odorous Moluccas instead of the
as you gazed, and wondered what monstrous cannibal and savage could ever have
ashes!  What despair in those immovable inscriptions!  What deadly voids and
ashore.  To be sure they all sleep together in one apartment, but you have
asleep or awake, I have a way of always keeping my eyes shut, in order the
assaults!  And thus have these naked Nantucketers, these sea hermits, issuing
assented to.  Then the Captain knows that Jonah is a fugitive; but at the
assented; for besides the affection I now felt for Queequeg, he was an
at Queequeg so much --for they were used to seeing cannibals like him in their
at all, especially as another current from the rickety door met the one from
at last, standing motionless, with closed eyes, for the moment, seemed
at once; and since the sea-gods had ordained that he should soon become my
at such times look downwards to our platters, they, on the contrary, copying
at the whales, in order to discover when they were nigh enough to risk a
awaiting him; and the whale shoots-to all his ivory teeth, like the Lord out
away at his pipe and sitting up in bed.  You gettee in, he added, motioning
away at the space between his legs.  he was trying his hand at a ship under
away the Captain from that scent.  "I'll sail with ye," --he says, --"the
away unobserved, and I saw no more of him till he became my comrade on the
bad taste.  Halting for an instant at the foot of the ladder, and with both
bamboozingly story is this you are telling me?  getting into a towering rage.
bar-- a rude attempt at a right whale's head.  Be that how it may, there
be backward, but let him cheerfully allow himself to spend and be spent in
be comfortable any more.  But if, like Queequeg and me in the bed, the tip
be his, who coming to lay him down, can say with his final breath --O Father!
be mine the lesson that Jonah teaches to all sinners; and therefore to ye,
be passed; and at last amid the whirl of woe he feels, a deep stupor steals
be the proprietor of one of the best kept hotels in all Nantucket, and
be true, even though to be false were salvation!  Yea, woe to him who, as the
be, to keep quiet, and let me get up and light the lamp again.  But his
be.
beach, without a background.  There is more sand there than you would use in
bear a hardy helm; for lo!  the sun is breaking through; the clouds are
beards stiff with icicles, they seemed an eruption of bears from Labrador.
beating against a terrible storm off a lee coast of black rocks and snowy
beaver hat, a very tall one, by the by, and then --still minus his trowsers
because I promptly and respectfully obey that old hunks in that particular
bed for confidential disclosures between friends.  Man and wife, they say,
bed that.  Why, afore we give it up, Sal used to put our Sam and little
bed unoccupied.  But avast, he added, tapping his forehead, you haint no
bed!  the small of my back ached to think of it.  And it was so light too;
bed-clothes too, seeing that there was no fire in the room.  The more so, I
bed.  But what is this on the chest?  I took it up, and held it close to the
bedfellow; he's been in a fight, got dreadfully cut, and here he is, just
bedfellows.  I told him yes; whereat I thought he looked pleased, perhaps a
bedwards.  Suppose now, he should tumble in upon me at midnight --how could I
beefsteaks, done rare.  Enough, that when breakfast was over he withdrew like
before I did.
before us.  We resumed business; and while plying our spoons in the
began to think that after all I might be cherishing unwarrantable prejudices
begged him as well as I could, to accelerate his toilet somewhat, and
begged him to go on and tell it.  He gladly complied.  Though at the time I
begged his pardon.  From that hour I clove to Queequeg like a barnacle; yea,
being cunningly presented to me under various disguises, induced me to set
being done; those on deck rushed towards the bows, and stood eyeing the boom
being itself nicely headed, and stained with a mahogany color, the whole
being said, the High Priest opens the banquet by the immemorial ceremony of
being.  In fact take my body who will, take it I say, it is not me.  And
bench in the room was about four inches higher than the planed one --so there
benches, and a still slighter shuffling of women's shoes, and all was quiet
bending over them, as if our knee-pans were warming-pans.  We felt very nice
bent upon narrowly observing so curious a creature.  When, at last, his mind
berth his tormented eyes roll round the place, and this thus far successful
beseeching her as a particular favor to give me a good slippering for my
besides the Feegeeans, Tongatabooarrs, Erromanggoans, Pannangians, and
bespeaking his sea-outfit, he orders bell-buttons to his waistcoats; straps
better than try pot-luck at the Try Pots.  But the directions he had given us
between billows; so at nightfall, the Nantucketer, out of sight of land,
between the andirons.  the chimney jambs and all the bricks inside were very
beyond seas for a spile to stop a leak in an oil cask; that pieces of wood in
bigger than hazel nuts, mixed with pounded ship biscuit, and salted pork cut
bill; using, however, my comrade's money.  The grinning landlord, as well as
billow leaping over the bulwarks.  Wave after wave thus leaps into the ship,
biscuit on top and applying the flame from the lamp, he kindled the shavings
bit of mirror against the wall, begins a vigorous scraping, or rather
black and bold, there seemed tokens of a spirit that would dare a thousand
black, and suspended by asses' ears, swung from the cross-trees of an old
black-letter, thou reasonest well.  Yes, these eyes are windows, and this
blackish looking squares.  Yes, it's just as I thought, he's a terrible
blackness of darkness, and the weeping and wailing and teeth-gnashing
blackness, not houses, on either hand, and here and there a candle, like a
blanket.  I thought so.  All right; take a seat.  Supper? --you want supper?
bliss; why all the living so strive to hush all the dead; wherefore but the
boats and captured cod; and at last, launching a navy of great ships on the
boats' crews of the Ship Eliza, Who were towed out of sight by a Whale, On
boatswain calls all hands to lighten her; when boxes, bales, and jars are
body of mine is the house.  What a pity they didn't stop up the chinks and the
boisterous something about everything connected with that famous old island,
boisterously grand!  We feel the floods surging over us; we sound with him to
boldness to his face, only looks so much the more a coward.  He will not
boom to stay it, seemed madness.  It flew from right to left, and back again,
boom was now flying from side to side, completely sweeping the entire after
bowl, thinks I to myself, I wonder now if this here has any effect on the
bowl; --taking it i suppose for a huge finger-glass.  now, said Queequeg,
brawny company, with bosky beards; an unshorn, shaggy set, all wearing
breakers.  But high above the
breakfast.  They say that men who have seen the world, thereby become quite at
breath, that's a purty long sarmon for a chap that rips a little now and
breeching up towards the warm and pleasant sun, and all the delights of air
breezes, which a few hours previous were out of sight of land.  Look at the
bright terraces of flowers upon the barren refuse rocks thrown aside at
brighter relief, and looked more expansive than it otherwise would, this I
broad awake, feeling a great deal worse than I have ever done since, even
brow, and the light leaping from his eye, made all his simple hearers look
brown and burnt, making his white teeth dazzling by the contrast; while in
brows as a slave before the Sultan.  Sideways leaning, we sideways darted;
bumpkin was restored.  All hands voted Queequeg a noble trump; the captain
bumpkin, running towards that officer; Capting, Capting, here's the devil.
bumpkins there, who, by their intense greenness, must have come from the heart
burglar hastening to cross the seas.  So disordered, self-condemning is his
business as selling the heads of dead idolators?  Depend upon it, landlord,
business of whaling --a speechlessly quick chaotic bundling of a man into
but I rolled about a good deal, and could not sleep for a long time.  At
but as for me, I am tormented with an everlasting itch for things remote.  I
but he now spoke of his native island; and, eager to hear his history, I
but hollow courtesy.  I drew my bench near him, and made some friendly signs
but ill comprehended not a few of his words, yet subsequent disclosures,
but jumped out of my pantaloons and boots, and then blowing out the light
but no sooner does he hear that hollow voice, than he darts a scrutinizing
but the lock contains no key.  Hearing him foolishly fumbling there, the
but too well knew the darkness of his deserts, --when wretched Jonah cries out
but two dismal tallow candles, each in a winding sheet.  We were fain to
but with whom one sometimes loves to sit, and feel poor-devilish, too;
button up our monkey jackets, and hold to our lips cups of scalding tea with
by a pool in the stream.  There is magic in it.  Let the most absent-minded
by dint of much wriggling, and loud and incessant expostulations upon the
by so much the more shall ye for ever go thankless!
by the plunging bowsprit, that for some time we did not notice the jeering
by wharves as Indian isles by coral reefs--commerce surrounds it with her surf.
came into the room light in hand, and leaping from the bed I ran up to him.
came such fervent rays, that it seemed to have melted the packed snow and ice
came to a smoky light proceeding from a low, wide building, the door of which
can better answer than any one else.  And, doubtless, my going on this whaling
can only give me half a one; that the other half belongs to a certain
candle a good way off from me on the floor in one corner, and then began
candle moving about in a tomb.  At this hour of the night, of the last day of
canes in land tornadoes.  So full of this reeling scene were we, as we stood
cannibals stand chatting at street corners; savages outright; many of whom
cannot tell why this was exactly; yet, now that I recall all the
canoes, after a perilous passage they discovered the island, and there they
captain had not looked up to jonah, though the man now stands before him;
carpenters and coopers, with blended noises of fires and forges to melt the
carpet-bag, tucked it under my arm, and started for Cape Horn and the
carriage, for his tarpaulin hat ran down with melting sleet, and his great
case with swinging ones, were of cloth-covered rope, only the rounds were of
casks were piled upon her wharves, and side by side the world-wandering whale
centre of the picture over three blue, dim, perpendicular lines floating in a
centre table, could see no other furniture belonging to the place, but a
certain mild gleams of a newly developing bloom --the spring verdure peeping
cetology.  Far from it.  As touching the ancient authors generally, as well 
chambers of my soul are all in crookedness!"  Like one who after a night of
chance of spending a sufferable night unless in some other person's bed, I
chapel with a handsome pair of red worsted man-ropes for this ladder, which,
chaplain had not yet arrived; and there these silent islands of men and women
chaplain.  Yes, it was the famous Father Mapple, so called by the whalemen,
cheapest, if not the cheeriest inns.  Such dreary streets!  Blocks of
cheek like
cheerfully we consign ourselves to perdition!  Finally, I always go to sea as
chest and arms.  As I live, these covered parts of him were checkered with
chest heaved as with a ground-swell; his tossed arms seemed the warring
chest that did double duty as a wash-stand and centre table; there, make
chief among these motives was the overwhelming idea of the great whale
chief mates, and second mates, and third mates, and sea carpenters, and sea
chimney and packed me off to bed, though it was only two o'clock in the
choked me, are these ashes from that destroyed city, Gomorrah?  But The
church to the larboard, and then keeping that on the larboard hand till we
circumstances, I think I can see a little into the springs and motives which
clammy reception in the winter time, ain't it, Mrs Hussey?  But being in a
clattering overboard; when the wind is shrieking, and the men are yelling,
clean over the craft, is in the enormous act of impaling himself upon the
clear space against the wall, leaving a little interval between, for my back
clearing away the stern boat, Queequeg, stripped to the waist, darted from
closed eyes,
closely seated by my bedside.  For what seemed ages piled on ages, I lay
clouds of tobacco smoke.  The next moment the light was extinguished, and
coast of Labrador.  As it is, parts of her back country are enough to frighten
coffer-dam.  I have seldom seen such brawn in a man.  His face was deeply
cold, for there is no quality in this world that is not what it is merely by
combat of the four primal elements. --It's a blasted heath. --It's a Hyperborean
come to anchor somewhere --come along then; do come; won't ye come?  I
come to the conclusion that such an idea, however wild, might not be
comely looking cannibal.  What's all this fuss I have been making about,
comfortableness of sharing a pipe and a blanket with a real friend.  With our
comforted for those who we nevertheless maintain are dwelling in unspeakable
coming home at all that night, it being so very late, I made no more ado,
commodores of this earth, ever stands forth his own inexorable self.  Delight
communing with God and himself.  But again he leaned over towards the people,
companionship; always equal to himself.  Surely this was a touch of fine
compare with a country-bred one -- I mean a downright bumpkin dandy --a fellow
complaints -- No more the whale did me confine.  With speed he flew to my
completely independent of the squares of tattooing.  To be sure, it might be
complexion of a third still lingers a tropic tawn, but slightly bleached
concerned), I will here venture upon a little description of him.  He stood
confabulations, what little nappishness remained in us altogether departed,
confess himself suspected; but that itself is strong suspicion.  So he makes
confession; whereupon the mariners became more and more appalled, but still
confounded about the stranger, i confess i was now as much afraid of him as if
congregation, I knew not; but so many are the unrecorded accidents in the
conscious of so living or so striving.  So soon as I hear that such or such a
consciousness of knowing something about me seemed slowly dawning over him.
considered the matter a moment, and then up stairs we went, and I was
considering that we so earnestly believe money to be the root of all earthly
consternation, Queequeg dropped deftly to his knees, and crawling under the
content to toil in the shipyards of foreign cities, Queequeg disdained no
content.  Again, I always go to sea as a sailor, because they make a point of
contented himself with restricting his ablutions to his chest, arms, and
continual tolling of a bell in a ship that is foundering at sea in a fog --in
contrast.  Nothing exists in itself.  If you flatter yourself that you are all
contrivance, considering what manner of chapel it was, seemed by no means in
convicts' cells being never allowed to be locked within.  All dressed and
coopers, and sea blacksmiths, and harpooneers, and ship keepers; a brown and
cordially justified his bringing his harpoon into breakfast with him, and
cottage, this Captain marches in, and being assigned the post of honor,
could attend to no business that day, at least none but a supper and a bed.
could be mended with a chair.  But it was a foot too narrow, and the other
could make eider down of a pine plank.  So gathering up the shavings with
could not suspect him of courting notoriety by any mere tricks of the stage.
could prevail.  But Queequeg vowed a vow.  Alone in his canoe, he paddled off
country schoolmaster, making the tallest boys stand in awe of you.  The
country's phrase, that we were bosom friends; he would gladly die for me, if
country.  I quaked to think of it.  A peddler of heads too --perhaps the heads
covered his face with his hands, and so remained kneeling, till all the
crannies though, and thrust in a little lint here and there.  But it's too
crawl up the chimney, as i had seen a little sweep do a few days previous;
crazy to go to sea?  Why upon your first voyage as a passenger, did you
creation's final day.  And the women of New Bedford, they bloom like their own
crouching manner for some time, when all at once I thought I would open my
crowds of water-gazers there.  Circumambulate the city of a dreamy Sabbath
cry, Jonah staggers to his feet, and stumbling to the deck, grasps a shroud,
curious, certainly more comical.
cutlery with a vengeance.  Afterwards I wondered the less at this operation
dark complexioned harpooneer.  At any rate, I made up my mind that if it
dark.  Landlord, for God's sake, Peter Coffin!  shouted I.  Landlord!
darkened, doleful day read the fate of the whalemen who had gone before me,
darkness.  Instantly I felt a shock running through all my frame; nothing was
dauntlessness, and his wild desire to visit Christendom, the captain at last
dead lie buried beneath the green grass; who standing among flowers can say
decanters, bottles, flasks; and in those jaws of swift destruction, like
decidedly objectionable, why rather than wander further about a strange town
deck.  For as in this world, head winds are far more prevalent than winds
declared everlasting war with the mightiest animated mass that has survived
deep.  Is not the main-truck higher than the kelson is low?  Delight is to
defaced, that in the unequal cross-lights by which you viewed it, it was
degree, some time or other, cherish very nearly the same feelings towards the
deliriums and death.  Abominable are the tumblers into which he pours his
deliverance of him from the sea and the whale.  Shipmates, I do not place
dented with the marks of slavish heels and hoofs; and turned me to admire the
describing Jonah's sea-storm, seemed tossed by a storm himself.  His deep
descried, and the bow must bear the earliest brunt.  From thence it is the
description of his person.  He reads, and looks from Jonah to the bill;
deserted wharf the uncheered ship for Tarshish, all careening, glides to sea.
desire to see something more of Christendom than a specimen whaler or two.
desires for a supper and a bed, Mrs. Hussey, postponing further scolding for
devil fetch that harpooneer, thought I, but stop, couldn't I steal a march on
devil of a Sub-Sub appears to have gone through the long Vaticans and 
devils.  And besides all this, there was a certain lofty bearing about the
dexterity, hand over hand, mounted the steps as if ascending the main-top of
died sixty round centuries ago; how it is that we still refuse to be
difficulty having opened his bag, he commenced fumbling in it, and presently
discernment detects crime in any, but whose cupidity exposes it only in the
dismally calculating that sixteen entire hours must elapse before I could hope
dismantled masts alone visible; and an exasperated whale, purposing to spring
dismissed it.  For who could tell but what the next morning, so soon as I
disobeying ourselves, wherein the hardness of obeying God consists.  With
does Jonah's deep sealine sound!  what a pregnant lesson to us is this
does it not bear a faint resemblance to a gigantic fish?  even the great
don't be too particular.  With halting steps I paced the streets, and passed
don't--he eats nothing but steaks, and likes 'em rare.  The devil he does,
doom, and with swift slantings tore him along"into the midst of the seas,"
door flew back upon admitting him, a quick regardful eyeing of him by all
down among the sailors, and made a whaleman of him.  But like Czar Peter
down in the stern, paddle low in hand; and when the ship was gliding by,
down lengthwise along the line of the equator; yea, ye
dragged up hither from the bottom of the sea.  Can Herr Alexander perform a
dreadful punishment is just.  He leaves all his deliverance to God, contenting
dreadful storm comes on, the ship is like to break.  But now when the
dreadnaught, which he had previously hung on a chair, he fumbled in the
dreams --I opened my eyes, and the before sun-lit room was now wrapped in outer
dreary street shouldering my bag, and comparing the gloom towards the north
dress first and then leave me to dress afterwards, leaving the whole
drinks the tepid tears of orphans.  But no more of this blubbering now, we are
dropping in before long.  I'll have a good look at him then, and perhaps we
drunken revelry hies to his bed, still reeling, but with conscience yet
dusty as he is, Jonah throws himself into his berth, and finds the little
each other as though they had never been out of sight of some sheepfold among
earthly reason why I as a sailor should sleep two in a bed, more than anybody
ease in manner, quite self-possessed in company.  Not always, though:
effects upon the skin.  Now, while all these ideas were passing through me
elements at work; and the thunders that rolled away from off his swarthy
else singing some pagan psalmody or other, during which his face twitched
else to do with myself, I resolved to spend the rest of the evening as a
else; for sailors no more sleep two in a bed at sea, than bachelor Kings do
embalmed head; took out his enormous tobacco wallet, and groping under the
emblematical harpoons round yonder lofty mansion, and your question will be
ended with his pipe's last dying puff, Queequeg embraced me, pressed his
endlessness, yea, the intolerableness of all earthly effort.  Gaining the
enough civilized to show off his outlandishness in the strangest possible
enough.  So saying he procured the plane; and with his old silk handkerchief
entered.  No wonder, then, that they made a straight wake for the whale's
enthusiasm, -- but oh!  shipmates!  on the starboard hand of every woe, there is
entirely at his ease; preserving the utmost serenity; content with his own
ere he judge him openly.  He charges him thrice the usual sum; and it's
ere he touched a deck.  How plainly he's a fugitive!  no baggage, not a
eschewed coffee and hot rolls, and applied his undivided attention to
evening shades and phantoms gathering round the casements, and peering in
ever this earth's foremost part; all the rest comes in its rear; the pulpit
ever warm; and for whom even Pale Sherry would be too rosy-strong;
every ropeyarn tingling like a wire; the two tall masts buckling like Indian
exactly how to take them.  At first they are overawing; their calm
exceedingly sharp the long straight edges are always kept.
exhibiting strong symptoms of concluding his business operations, and jumping
experienced harpooneer, and as such, could not fail to be of great usefulness
extensive performances.  I take it that this part of the bill must have run
eyes, and began creaking and limping about the room, as if, not being much
eyes, and begin to be over conscious of my lungs, I do not mean to have it
eyes; for when between sheets, whether by day or by night, and whether
face into an unearthly expression of disdain, ah!  him bevy small-e fish-e;
face of Falsehood!  That was it!  This, shipmates, this is that other lesson;
face that little negro idol of his; peering hard into its face, and with a
face.  I was watching to see where he kept his razor, when lo and behold, he
falling among the cannibals, had been tattooed by them.  I concluded that this
fashioned pulpits, it was a very lofty one, and since a regular stairs to
fear the Lord God then!  Straightway, he now goes on to make a full
feat like that?  In New Bedford, fathers, they say, give whales for dowers to
feature of the place, borrowed from the chaplain's former sea-farings.
feel his own identity aright except his eyes be closed; as if darkness were
feeling as if it were in a horse-collar; and suddenly felt a slight scratch.
feet a-going, and he will infallibly lead you to water, if water there be in
feet, sought out my stepmother, and suddenly threw myself at her feet,
fellow beings should be so companionable; as though a white man were anything
fellow man what I would have my fellow man to do to me -- that is the will of
felt dreadfully.  But there was no help for it, so up stairs I went to my
fiddle-headed beak.  What could be more full of meaning? --for the pulpit is
fifty years ago did Nathan Swain kill fifteen whales between a sunrise and a
figure, no two parts of which were of one precise shade --owing I suppose to
filled with dusty rarities gathered from this wide world's remotest nooks.
finally the deliverance and joy of Jonah.  As with all sinners among men,
fire, and still hastier
first I knew not what to make of this; but soon an inkling of the truth
first dusting the bench, vigorously set to planing away at my bed, the while
first you almost thought some ambitious young artist, in the time of the New
fish; and from the shuddering cold and blackness of the sea, the whale came
fishery, and so plainly did several women present wear the countenance if not
five of us were summoned to our meal in an adjoining room.  It was cold as
floating forts; even pirates and privateers, though following the sea as
flowering youth, for among all the fissures of his wrinkles, there shone
flying scud and dark-rolling clouds, there floated a little isle of sunlight,
foam-fountain, Queequeg seemed to drink and reel with me.  His dusky nostrils
follow.  First he takes about a double handful of shavings out of his grego
followed the streets that took me waterward, for there, doubtless, were the
following before me in New Bedford, ere I could embark for my destined port,
following, but I do not pretend to quote: -- Sacred To the Memory of John
foot against the flinty projections, because from hard, remorseless
foot capsized and sank his canoe; climbed up the chains; and throwing
for a resurrection.  Sixteen hours in
for a shilling.  Upon entering the place I found a number of young seamen
for days and weeks and months afterwards I lost myself in confounding attempts
for his own harpoon, because it was of assured stuff, well tried in many a
for it in the entry, and seeming to hear nothing but the word clam, Mrs.
for me to join him; but well knowing what was to follow, I deliberated a
for the Customs --"who's there?"  Oh!  how that harmless question mangles Jonah!
forehead against mine, and blowing out the light, we rolled over from each
formed its back was adorned with a large painting representing a gallant ship
forth even beneath February's snow.  No one having previously heard his
forth, partly laden with imported cobble-stones --so goes the story --to throw
found an empty ivory casket, --the poor little Indian's skeleton.  What wonder,
freckled woman with yellow hair and a yellow gown, standing in the porch of
fresh surprise.  There was no hair on his head --none to speak of at least --
from astern (that is, if you never violate the Pythagorean maxim), so for
from before the house, for everywhere else the congealed frost lay ten inches
from deliberately stepping into the street, and methodically knocking
from him against the wall, and then conjured him, whoever or whatever he might
from lanes and alleys, streets and avenues, --north, east, south, and west.
from me; but waking in the morning, I shudderingly remembered it all, and
from my ice-glazed hat and jacket, I seated myself near the door, and
from that wild pipe of his, and keeping it regularly passing between us.  If
from the Humane and Magnanimous Societies.  He only asked for water --fresh
from the docks, and heard a forlorn creaking in the air; and looking up,
from the greatest subsequent misfortunes.  At last I must have fallen into a
from the other, as if each silent grief were insular and incommunicable.  The
from the quilt, they so blended their hues together; and it was only by the
from the surgeon.  But at that moment he chanced to turn his face so towards
from the water, Queequeg now took an instant's glance around him, and
from their ant-hill in the sea, overrun and conquered the watery world like
from this sure Keel of the Ages.  And eternal delight and deliciousness will
from which beamed forth an angel's face; and this bright face shed a distinct
frontiers.  So Jonah's Captain prepares to test the length of Jonah's purse,
fugitive finds no refuge for his restless glance.  But that contradiction in
full of fine maples --long avenues of green and gold.  And in August, high in
full sail, but he didn't make much headway, I thought.  At last some four or
full six feet in height, with noble shoulders, and a chest like a
furiously they mob him with their questions.  "What is thine occupation?
furls his sails, and lays him to his rest, while under his very pillow rush
further adorning it with his jack-knife, stooping over and diligently working
future.  Yes, we became very wakeful; so much so that our recumbent
gale howls louder; then, with one hand raised invokingly to God, with the
gangway, there!  side away to larboard--larboard gangway to starboard!
gaspings and strainings, I inferred he was hard at work booting himself;
gathered about a table, examining by a dim light divers specimens of
genteelly.  We will not speak of all Queequeg's peculiarities here; how he
gentleman, at least for a sea captain --this commander was invited to the
girls breathe such musk, their sailor sweethearts smell them miles off shore,
give him much joy.  His voice at once announced
giving utterance to a long-drawn gurgling whistle of astonishment.  He would
glance.  "We sail with the next coming tide," at last he slowly answered,
glances of the passengers, a lubber-like assembly, who marvelled that two
glasses deceitfully tapered downwards to a cheating bottom.  Parallel
glasses, and in not altogether unpleasant sadness i{give} it up, sub-subs!
glazier.  True enough, thought I, as this passage occurred to my mind --old
glimpse of so outlandish an individual as Queequeg circulating among the
glittering teeth resembling ivory saws; others were tufted with knots of
gods!  go down to the fiery pit itself, in order to keep out this frost?  Now,
goin' out of the door with four heads strung on a string, for all the airth
going a-whaling, and there is plenty of that yet to come.  Let us scrape the
going to bed, yet no sign of my harpooneer.  Landlord!  said I, what sort of
gone a death-harvesting with such a hacking, horrifying implement.  Mixed with
good Christian; born and bred in the bosom of the infallible Presbyterian
got a carpenter's plane there in the bar --wait, I say, and I'll make ye snug
gradually monopolizing the business of whaling, and though in this matter poor
grave.  As well might those tablets stand in the cave of Elephanta as here.
great Pilot Paul has it, while preaching to others is himself a castaway!
great expedition: when leaning back a moment and bethinking me of Mrs.
great hurry to resume scolding the man in the purple shirt, who was waiting
great rudeness; staring at him from the bed, and watching all his toilette
great whales on the high seas --entire strangers to them --and duelled them dead
green sapling; even then, in Queequeg's ambitious soul, lurked a strong
grinning like an ape.  The shavings flew right and left; till at last the
grow naturally; that they import Canada thistles; that they have to send
guilty eye, skulking from his God; prowling among the shipping like a vile
guise?  I put it on, to try it, and it weighed me down like a hamper, being
gulp down your tears and hie aloft to the royal-mast with your  hearts; for
guttural noises from the devotee, who seemed to be praying in a sing-song or
guttural responses satisfied me at once that he but ill comprehended my
had made a harpooneer of him, and that barbed iron was in lieu of a sceptre
had not been a small degree civilized, he very probably would not have
hammock lashed up, and thrown upon the floor in one corner; also a large
hammock, away we went down to the Moss, the little Nantucket packet
hand from the sailors on the forecastle.  He thinks he breathes it first; but
hands grasping the ornamental knobs of the man-ropes, Father Mapple cast a
hands.  He then donned his waistcoat, and taking up a piece of hard soap on
harpoon from the bowsprit?  Now having a night, a day, and still another night
harpooneer hears you a slanderin' his head.  I'll break it for him, said I,
harpooneer in his youth, but for many years past had dedicated his life to the
harpooneer, his linen or woollen, as the case might be, would not be of the
harpooneer, in the course of his distant voyages, must have met with a
harpooneer, is it?  Oh, no, said he, looking a sort of diabolically funny,
harpooneer.  And about this harpooneer, whom I have not yet seen, you
harpooning of his cheeks.  Thinks I, Queequeg, this is using Rogers's best
has just arrived from the south seas, where he bought up a lot of 'balmed New
hat-box, valise, or carpet-bag, --no friends accompany him to the wharf with
have reservoirs of oil in every house, and every night recklessly burn their
have the satisfaction of knowing that it is all right; that everybody else
have their grace as well as we --though Queequeg told me that unlike us, who
he at last succeeded in drawing out the biscuit; then blowing off the heat
he began feeling me.  Stammering out something, I knew not what, I rolled away
he but embarks for the remotest Indies of this living earth; why the Life
he carried such a troublesome thing with him ashore, and whether all whaling
he could anyways find in any book whatsoever, sacred or profane.
he couldn't sell it here, the market's overstocked.  With what?  shouted I.
he did not altogether remember how I came to be there, though a dim
he exclaimed I vum it's Sunday --you won't see that harpooneer to-night; he's
he felt a strong desire to have a few quiet puffs from his Tomahawk.  Be it
he proposed to sail about, and sow his wild oats in all four oceans.  They
he refrained from making as much noise as the rest.  This man interested me
he saw in the fountain, plunged into it and was drowned.  But that same
he swore was a sovereign cure for all colds and catarrhs whatsoever, never
head now looked for all the world like a mildewed skull.  Had not the stranger
head-board with our four knees drawn up close together, and our two noses
heads muffled in woollen comforters, all bedarned and ragged, and their
heads, as it generally does even with the arrantest topers newly landed from
heard in the entry; the door was flung open, and in rolled a wild set of
heard the engulphed, repenting prophet when he cried.  Then God spake unto the
hearts' honeymoon, lay I and Queequeg --a cosy, loving pair.
heathenish array of monstrous clubs and spears.  Some were thickly set with
heeded them not, going along wheeling the barrow by turns, and Queequeg now
hell" --when the whale grounded upon the ocean's utmost bones, even then, God
her affrighted face from the steep gullies in the blackness overhead, aghast
herds of walruses and whales.
here come more crowds, pacing straight for the water, and seemingly bound for
here placed by their surviving Shipmates.
hidden image, feeling but ill at ease meantime --to see what was next to
hides among the waves, he climbs them as chamois hunters climb the Alps.  For
high Heaven, they fall to casting lots, to see for whose cause this great
highwaymen the road, they but plunder other ships, other fragments of the
him --a far, far upward, and inward delight --who against the proud gods and
him --bolt his door inside, and jump into his bed, not to be wakened by the
him overboard; suspended a cutlass over his naked wrists; Queequeg was the
him, and at last, fully to test the truth, by referring the whole matter to
him, and the chowder being surpassingly excellent, we despatched it with
him, imputable to that adventurous maritime life he had led.  When he entered
him, leaving smooth water behind.  He goes down in the whirling heart of such
him, though now some time from home.  By hints, I asked him whether he did
him.  Yet even then beyond the reach of any plummet --"out of the belly of
himself at full length upon the deck, grappled a ringbolt there, and swore not
himself.  Such a portentous and mysterious monster roused all my curiosity.
hint of Father Mapple, and finished the pulpit without a stairs, substituting
his boat was killed by a Sperm Whale on the coast of Japan, August 3d,
his brown tattooed legs over mine, and then drawing them back; so entirely
his canoe, still afloat, among these thickets, with its prow seaward, he sat
his chowders.  In short, he plainly hinted that we could not possibly do
his countenance yet had a something in it which was by no means disagreeable.
his father dead and gone, he being very old and feeble at the last accounts.
his father's heathens.  Arrived at last in old Sag Harbor; and seeing what
his feet on the stove hearth, and in one hand was holding close up to his
his feet, while Queequeg, turning his back upon him, lighted his tomahawk
his heathenish way.  But being now interrupted, he put up the image; and
his keeping his arm at sea unmethodically in sun and shade, his shirt
his look, as he silently turned over the leaves of the Book once more; and,
his majesty the King, Queequeg's father.  Grace being said, -- for those people
his meadow, and there sleep his cattle; and up from yonder cottage goes a
his mission, and sought to escape his duty and his God by taking ship at
his own proper person, afford stuff for a good joke to anybody, let him not
his prison.  Then Jonah prayed unto learn a weighty lesson.  For sinful as he
his soul.  In all his cringing attitudes, the God-fugitive is now too plainly
his unearthly complexion, that part of it, I mean, lying round about, and
his untutored countrymen.  For at bottom --so he told me --he was actuated by a
his vessel.  the perpendicular parts of this side ladder, as is usually the
his, boldly dip into the Potluck of both worlds.  To all this I joyously
his; he owns it, as Emperors own empires; other seamen having but a right
history, could for the first time behold Father Mapple without the utmost
holding it to the light, with his mouth at the handle, he puffed out great
holy?  Why did the Greeks give it a separate deity, and own brother of Jove?
horns; yes, two of them, one for Queequeg, and one for me.  It's ominous,
how it is that to his name who yesterday departed for the other world, we
however, he turned round --when, good heavens!  what a sight!  Such a face!  It
howling night, when this corner-anchored old ark rocked so furiously.  On one
howling of the storm.  A brief pause ensued; the preacher slowly turned over
human hair; and one was sickle-shaped, with a vast handle sweeping round like
humility, he spake these words: Shipmates, God has laid but one hand upon
hundred gold coins for the apprehension of a parricide, and containing a
ibis and roasted river horse, that you see the mummies of those creatures in
ice from our frosted feet, and see what sort of a place this Spouter may
idol; offered him burnt biscuit with Queequeg; salamed before him twice or
idolator.  So I kindled the shavings; helped prop up the innocent little
if a parcel of dark green frogs were running up the trunks of young palms.  It
ills, and that on no account can a monied man enter heaven.  Ah!  how
illuminated by the flame of the new-lit lamp.  Whether it was that this
image, we ourselves see in all rivers and oceans.  It is the image of the
immediate vicinity of the spot where I had thought to spend the night.  The
imminent jeopardy of many heads, and grappling the beefsteaks towards him.
in a great hurricane; the half-foundered ship weltering there with its three
in all respects safe to spend the night with him.  And in the first place,
in fixed reality, and then I lay only alive to the comical predicament.  For
in his countenance.  This savage was the only person present who seemed to
in it.  Besides, passengers get sea-sick --grow quarrelsome --don't sleep of
in lath and plaster--tied to counters, nailed to benches, clinched to desks.
in the South Seas; and perhaps the sun there produced these extraordinary
in the general consciousness you feel most delightfully and unmistakably warm.
in the room.  I was all eagerness to see his face, but he kept it averted for
in the transition state -- neither caterpillar nor butterfly.  He was just
in this famous town.  Soon I proposed a social smoke; and, producing his pouch
in which to carry his heavy chest to his boarding house.  Not to seem ignorant
in, in all New England.  It is a land of oil, true enough; but not like
in.  And there they stand--miles of them--leagues.  Inlanders all, they come
include reference to Professor Irey's work.
including our own.
indeed the proper element of our essences, though light be more congenial to
indifference of his
indifference speaking a nature in which there lurked no civilized hypocrisies
inexplicable in him.
inferred that I ever go to sea as a passenger.  For to go as a passenger you
injured eye, and carrying on a brisk scolding with a man in a purple woollen
inquiry of the neighbors, that you could any way arrive at an understanding
insignificant bit of black wood?  Impossible!  But what is worship? --to do the
instance?  Who aint a slave?  Tell me that.  Well, then, however the old
intensity has warmed the air, it then only glows to be looked at; the
interest, because there were certain engrafted clerical peculiarities about
interval I spent in deliberating what to say, was a fatal one.  Taking up his
intimate and confidential one in the highest degree.  I now demand of you to
into a sacrificial blaze.  Presently, after many hasty snatches into the
into bed with me, I thought it was high time, now or never, before the light
into countries where God does not reign, but only the Captains of this earth.
into the wall on either side the pulpit.  Three of them ran something like the
into the yawning jaws
invest his money in a pedestrian trip to Rockaway Beach?  Why is almost every
involuntarily took an oath with yourself to find out what that marvellous
is good, I am quick to perceive a horror, and could still be social with
is its prow.
is on, and the chips were carted off a million years ago.  Poor Lazarus
is one way or other served in much the same way -- either in a physical or
is that a universal proverb says of them, that
is that what you mean, Mrs. Hussey?  says I; but that's a rather cold and
is the one charm wanting? --Water --there is not a drop of water there!  Were
is to him whose strong arms yet support him, when the ship of this base
is, Jonah does not weep and wail for direct deliverance.  He feels that his
island far away to the West and South.  It is not down in any map; true
island of Rokovoko, it seems, at their wedding feasts express the fragrant
it became a matter of concernment where I was to eat and sleep meanwhile.  It
it fast; and then shoulders the barrow and marches up the wharf.  Why, said
it must symbolize something unseen.  Can it be, then, that by that act of
it seems, for some reason a huge favorite with them, they raised a cry of
it seems, had lent him one,
it was getting late, and my decent harpooneer ought to be home and going
it was the devil himself who had thus broken into my room at the dead of
it with a sticking-plaster shirt.  Still more, his very legs were marked, as
it--would they let me --since it is but well to be on friendly terms with all
it.  Here was a man some twenty thousand miles from home, by the way of Cape
it.  Now, take away the awful fear, and my sensations at feeling the
it; --didn't I tell ye, he was peddlin' heads around town? --but turn flukes
it?  Why did the poor poet of Tennessee, upon suddenly receiving two handfuls
its axis against the side, a swinging lamp slightly oscillates in Jonah's
jack-knife gently whittling away at its nose, meanwhile humming to himself in
jiffy; and so saying he lighted a candle and held it towards me, offering to
joints in the present instance seemed unnecessary.  For I was not prepared to
jonah gasps.  then, in that contracted hole, sunk, too, beneath the ship's
jump from spar to spar, like a grasshopper in a May meadow.  And at first,
just as you please; i'm sorry i cant spare ye a tablecloth for a mattress,
kill-e.  And so saying the lighted tomahawk began flourishing about me in the
killed that chap?  What him say?  said Queequeg, as he mildly turned to me.
knocking up a peaceable inhabitant to inquire the way, we at last came to
known.  The sailors mark him; more and more certain grow their suspicions of
land like themselves, without seeking to draw their living from the bottomless
land trunk.  Likewise, there was a parcel of outlandish bone fish hooks on the
land, covered with mangrove thickets that grew out into the water.  Hiding
land; loitering under the shady lee of yonder warehouses will not suffice.
landlord cried, That's the Grampus's crew.  I seed her reported in the
landlord's.  It's broke a'ready, said he.  Broke, said I -- broke, do you
landlord) really had no other place for me, and the harpooneer was not
lap began counting the pages with deliberate regularity; at every fiftieth
large door mat, ornamented at the edges with little tinkling tags something
last I slid off into a light doze, and had pretty nearly made a good offing
last all these fancies yielded to that one portentous something in the
last bales received, the lamp, flame and all, though in slight motion, still
last-mentioned haunts you see only sailors; but in New Bedford, actual
late to make any improvements now.  The universe is finished; the copestone
lead the way.  But I stood irresolute; when looking at a clock in the corner,
leads the world.  From thence it is the storm of God's quick wrath is first
leaning over sadly.  It stood on a sharp bleak corner, where that tempestuous
leg of ye.  Good night, landlord, said I, you may go.  I turned in, and
lengths in spermaceti candles.  In summer time, the town is sweet to see;
lesson to us all, because it is a story of the sin, hard-heartedness,
leviathan himself?  In fact, the artist's design seemed this: a final theory
liable to a criminal prosecution.  Wall, said the landlord, fetching a long
life.  I tore myself out of it in such a hurry that I gave myself a kink in
light in one hand, and that identical New Zealand head in the other, the
light looked so dim, and the place, for the time, looked
light, and felt it, and smelt it, and tried every way possible to arrive at
lighted his pipe, and leaning against the bulwarks, and mildly eyeing those
like a flash he darted out; gained her side; with one backward dash of his
like a marshal's baton.
like a string of inions.  This account cleared up the otherwise unaccountable
like another world, more strangely than the moon would to an Earthsman.  With
like leaves upon this shepherd's head, yet all were vain, unless the
like lightning, this harpooneer never noticed me at all.  But, after some
like oysters observing the sun through the water, and thinking that thick
like the stained porcupine quills round an Indian moccasin.  There was a hole
like these.  What bitter blanks in those black-bordered marbles which cover no
like to be private when they are sleeping.  And when it comes to sleeping with
likewise another answer to a question not put by them, but the unsolicited
limber, portentous, black mass of something hovering in the
little Moss came snugly to anchor, and Queequeg and I went ashore; so we
little complimented.  We then turned over the book together, and I endeavored
little devil did not seem to fancy such dry sort of fare at all; he never
little like a gallows.  Perhaps I was over sensitive to such impressions at
little room in the third floor, undressed myself as slowly as possible so as
little withered old man, who, for their money, dearly sells the sailors
livelihood!  They first caught crabs and quohogs in the sand; grown bolder,
lonely room; the fire burning low, in that mild stage when, after its first
long precisely --having little or no money in my purse, and nothing particular
long time ago.  It came in as a sort of brief interlude and solo between more
look towards His holy temple.  And here, shipmates, is true and faithful
look upwards, and then with a truly sailorlike but still reverential
look, that had there been policemen in
looked for all the world like a strip of that same patchwork quilt.  Indeed,
looker on.  Presently a rioting noise was heard without.  Starting up, the
looking at him a moment.  For all his tattooings he was on the whole a clean,
loud lament the parents saw their child borne out of sight over the wide
love once comes to bend them.  For now I liked nothing better than to have
love to sail forbidden seas, and land on barbarous coasts.  Not ignoring what
low ponderous beams above, and such old wrinkled planks beneath, that you
luggage safe, we stood on board the schooner.  Hoisting sail, it glided down
made a corner three points to the starboard, and that done, then ask the first
made an utter island of by the ocean, that to their very chairs and tables
made of frozen sighs, and being a president of a temperance society, he only
made the sea and the dry land!"  Fear him, O Jonah?  Aye, well mightest thou
made to order either --rather pinched and tormented him at the first go off of
made up to sail in no other than a Nantucket craft, because there was a fine,
magnanimity of the sea which will permit no records.  At the same
maintains a permanent obliquity with reference to the room; though, in truth,
make out a supper for us both on one clam?  However, a warm savory steam from
malice towards him, though he had been skylarking with me not a little in the
man gives himself out for a philosopher, I conclude that, like the dyspeptic
man sleepe you --you sabbee?  Me sabbee plenty --grunted Queequeg, puffing
man we met where the place was: these crooked directions of his very much
man!  Oh!  most contemptible and worthy of all scorn; with slouched hat and
managers, the Fates, put me down for this shabby part of a whaling voyage,
manikin was a real baby preserved in some similar manner.  But seeing that it
manner.  You had almost thought I had been his wife.  The counterpane was of
manner.  his education was not yet completed.  He was an undergraduate.  If he
many inland reapers and mowers, who go into the farmers' meadows armed with
mariners enough.  Enveloped in their shaggy watch coats, and with their
marvels of a thousand Patagonian sights and sounds, helped to sway me to my
maternal side he boasted aunts who were the wives of unconquerable warriors.
matter of my bedfellow.  However, a good laugh is a mighty good thing, and
mattress was stuffed with corn-cobs or broken crockery, there is no telling,
may be, he can't sell his head.  Can't sell his head? --What sort of a
may become jolly good bedfellows after all --there's no telling.
me --but at the same time what could I think of a harpooneer who stayed out a
me to get into bed --rolling over to one side as much as to say --I wont touch a
me.  But at length all the past night's events soberly recurred, one by one,
me.  I'll try a pagan friend, thought I, since Christian kindness has proved
mean?  Sartain, and that's the very reason he can't sell it, I guess.
meanest thou, O sleeper!  arise!"  Startled from his lethargy by that direful
meaning.  Who-e debel you? --he at last said -- you no speak-e, dam-me, I
men, all athirst for gain and glory in the fishery.  They are mostly young,
mere crossing of Siberia in a sledge drawn by dogs as Ledyard did, or the
meridians rudely pecked into the glass, surround these footpads' goblets.
metaphysical point of view, that is; and so the universal thump is passed
middle of the room thinking.  I then took off my coat, and thought a little
might have been carted here from the ruins of some burnt district, and as the
millions in China.  He lives on the sea, as prairie cocks in the prairie; he
mimicking him behind his back.  I thought the bumpkin's hour of doom was come.
mind of how long standing, or whether caught off the coast of Labrador, or
ministry.  At the time I now write of, Father Mapple was in the hardy winter
minutes more, and he rose again, one arm still striking out, and with the
minutes or more he was seen swimming like a dog, throwing his long arms
misbehavior; anything indeed but condemning me to lie abed such an
misgiving.  A sort of crick was in my neck as I gazed up to the two remaining
mockingly embellished with all the gay flags of all the known nations of the world.
model for repentance.  Sin not; but if you do, take heed to repent of it like
moment whether, in case he invited me, I would comply or otherwise.  I was a
money, how much is that, --I'll pay now."  For it is particularly written,
monkey jackets for morning gowns.  You could pretty plainly tell how long each
more appals him.  The floor, the ceiling, and the side, are all awry.  "Oh!  so
more dignified than a whitewashed negro.  But there were some boobies and
more in my shirt sleeves.  But beginning to feel very cold now, half undressed
more my splintered heart and maddened hand were turned against the wolfish
more open water, the bracing breeze waxed fresh; the little Moss tossed the
more to concentrate the snugness of being in bed.  Because no man can ever
moreover he had assured us that cousin Hosea, as he called him, was famous for
mortal combat, and deeply intimate with the hearts of whales.  In short, like
most of them all, one grand hooded phantom, like a snow hill in the air.
most violent knockings?  it seemed no bad idea; but upon second thoughts I
most young candidates for the pains and penalties of whaling
motions; for the time my curiosity getting the better of my breeding.
mouth --the bar --when the wrinkled little old Jonah, there officiating, soon
mouth; whenever it is a damp, drizzly November in my soul; whenever I find
moved his lips.  All these strange antics were accompanied by still stranger
movements.  He answered, to go to sea again, in his old vocation.  Upon this,
much and earnest contemplation, and oft repeated ponderings, and especially by
much as a single glance; but appeared wholly occupied with counting the
much reason to fear me, as I have to be afraid of him.  Better sleep with a
multitude of pages was excited.  With much interest I sat watching him.  Savage
must indeed be a heathen.  Going to his heavy grego, or wrapall, or
must needs have a purse, and a purse is but a rag unless you have something
my conscience hangs in me!" he groans, "straight upward, so it burns; but the
my linen would get on fire.  But thank heaven, at that moment the landlord
myself involuntarily pausing before coffin warehouses, and bringing up the
mysterious harpooneer had been wearing it of a rainy day.  I went up in it to
mystery, and showed that the landlord, after all, had had no idea of fooling
nameless yeast.  A boggy, soggy, squitchy picture truly, enough to drive a
napping at short intervals, and Queequeg now and then affectionately throwing
natives.  But New Bedford beats all Water street and Wapping.  In these
need should be.  In a countryman, this sudden flame of friendship would have
needs scarcely to be told, with what feelings, on the eve of a Nantucket
nervous man distracted.  Yet was there a sort of indefinite, half-attained,
never slept better in my life.
nigh the tail, and, like a restless needle sojourning in the body of a man,
nigh to drowning while yet afloat.  And ever, as the white moon shows
night's hospitalities, he made out to ask me whether we were again to be
night.  In fact, I was so afraid of him that I was not game enough just then
night; how Orion glitters; what northern lights!  Let them talk of their
nightmare to a dead sartainty.  Landlord, I whispered, that aint the
nights --do not enjoy themselves much, as a general thing; --no, I never go as a
no idea of sleeping with a madman; and you, sir, you I mean, landlord, you,
no quarter in the truth, and kills, burns, and destroys all sin though he
nor in the spring-time do they pave them with fresh eggs.  Yet, in spite of
not Lazarus rather be in Sumatra than here?  Would he not far rather lay him
not propose going back, and having a coronation; since he might now consider
not so.  In much the same way do the commonalty lead their leaders in many
nothing but a good coat of tropical tanning; but I never heard of a hot sun's
nothing but a small scalp-knot twisted up on his forehead.  His bald purplish
nothing surprising in this.  If they but knew it, almost all men in their
nothing; I leave eternity to Thee; for what is man that he should live out
notice my entrance; because he was the only one who could not read, and,
noticed these advances; but presently, upon my referring to his last
now flying into a passion again at this unaccountable farrago of the
now full of the boarders who had been dropping in the night previous, and
now the time of tide has come; the ship casts off her cables; and from the
now we'll have the latest news from the Feegees.  A tramping of sea boots was
now.  I asked him what might be his immediate purpose, touching his future
objections to sharing a harpooneer's blanket, have ye?  I s'pose you are goin'
occurred to me.  I remembered a story of a white man --a whaleman too--who,
ocean with me.  There now is your insular city of the Manhattoes, belted round
of God --never mind now what that command was, or how conveyed --which he found
of The Trap.  However, I picked myself up and hearing a loud voice within,
of a certain venerable robustness entered; immediately as the storm-pelted
of a healthy old age; that sort of old age which seems merging into a second
of a sea-captain orders me to get a broom and sweep down the decks?  What does
of his own brothers.  He might take a fancy to mine --heavens!  look at that
of its purpose.  such unaccountable masses of shades and shadows, that at
of making my own summer with my own coals.  But what thinks Lazarus?  Can he
of me, and secretly dogs me, and influences me in some unaccountable way --he
of men be plunged in his deepest reveries--stand that man on his legs, set his
of my own, partly based upon the aggregated opinions of many aged persons
of seamen, spurned his suit; and not all the King his father's influence
of ships from China; some high aloft in the rigging, as if striving to get a
of silver, deliberate whether to buy him a coat, which he sadly needed, or
of stalwart frames; fellows who have felled forests, and now seek to drop
of that tempestuous wind called Euroclydon, says an old writer --of whose
of the Try Pots, whom he asserted to
of the cloth called bearskin, I fought my way against the stubborn storm.
of the fish's belly.  But observe his prayer, and so many white bolts, upon
of the relatives of the seamen whose names appeared there were now among the
of this head-peddling purple rascal altogether passed my comprehension.
of water within the walls.  But the side ladder was not the only strange
of way through it.  Merchant ships are but extension bridges; armed ones but
of your nose or the crown of your head be slightly chilled, why then, indeed,
off his tatters with his shiverings, he might plug up both ears with rags,
officer on ship-board --yet, somehow, I never fancied broiling fowls; --though
offing this morning; a three years' voyage, and a full ship.  Hurrah, boys;
often lie and chat over old times till nearly morning.  Thus, then, in our
old Nantucket is now much behind her, yet Nantucket was her great original
old woman, he must have broken his digester.  As I sat there in that now
omnipotent is art; which in many a district of New Bedford has superinduced
on him with a quick fear that was strange to them.  There now came a lull in
on its back, and exactly the color of a three days' old Congo baby.
on so bitter a night, I would put up with the half of any decent man's
on the weather side of an ice-island.  The liquor soon mounted into their
once broiled, judiciously buttered, and judgmatically salted and peppered,
one had been ashore.  This young fellow's healthy cheek is like a sun-toasted
one in-doors, with his feet on the hob quietly toasting for bed.  In judging
one knows that in most people's estimation, to do anything coolly is to do it
one of those tall mountaineers from the Alleganian Ridge in Virginia.  When
one removed, and hung up in a little space in an adjacent corner; when,
one side, New Bedford rose in terraces of streets, their ice-covered trees
one, they look so bony.  The town itself is perhaps the dearest place to live
only begins a third, and so on, for ever and for aye.  Such is the
only by diligent study and a series of systematic visits to it, and careful
only harpooneers, cannibals, and bumpkins to show her visitors.  Not at all.
only meat and potatoes, but dumplings; good heavens!  dumplings for supper!
open, and in the wild conceits that swayed me to my purpose, two and two
or chapel for his Congo idol.  I now screwed my eyes hard towards the half
or slit in the middle of this mat, as you see the same in South American
orchard
oriental summer climes of everlasting conservatories; give me the privilege
other dragging a lifeless form.  The boat soon picked them up.  The poor
other they not unreluctantly lay hold of Jonah.  And now behold Jonah taken up
other things, at the same time that the leaders little suspect it.  But
other, this way and that, and very soon were sleeping.
our clayey part.  Upon opening my eyes then, and coming out of my own pleasant
our half frozen fingers.  But the fare was of the most substantial kind --not
our offing gained, the Moss did homage to the blast; ducked and dived her
out from the east, and the sea is still, as Jonah carries down the gale with
out upon this special errand.  The sky had changed from clear,
outside; a man can be honest in any sort of skin.  But then, what to make of
over comfortable, and have been so a long time, then you cannot be said to
over him, as over the man who bleeds to death, for conscience is the wound,
over his head, and at the next jerk, the spar was that way trapped, and all
over like a bench on the Battery.  At one end a ruminating tar was still
over the bed.  Though none of the most elegant, it yet stood the scrutiny
over the pulpit, deliberately drag up the ladder step by step, till the whole
overlapping spurs of mountains bathed in their hill-side blue.  But though
own skin.  The more I pondered over this harpooneer, the more I abominated
page --as I fancied --stopping a moment, looking vacantly around him, and
page, said: Beloved shipmates, clinch the last verse of the first chapter of
pages of the marvellous book.  Considering how sociably we had been sleeping
paid the fare thereof" ere the craft did sail.  And taken with the context,
painting meant.  Ever and anon a bright, but, alas, deceptive idea would dart
pair of prodigious black pots too!  Are these last throwing out oblique hints
panelled front was in the likeness of a ship's bluff bows, and the Holy Bible
paper fireboard.  By certain signs and symptoms, I thought he seemed anxious
part of the deck.  The poor fellow whom Queequeg had handled so roughly, was
particular connexion, thought I. But it is a common name in Nantucket,
particularly if you come of an old established family in the land, the van
particularly to get into his pantaloons as soon as possible.  He complied,
partly lying on it as the arm did when I first awoke, I could hardly tell it
passage
passage in this ship to Tarshish; how soon sail ye, sir?"  Thus far the busy
passenger; nor, though I am something of a salt, do I ever go to sea as a
patchwork, full of odd little parti-colored squares and triangles; and this
path of the boom, whipped hold of a rope, secured one end to the bulwarks,
paying me for my trouble, whereas they never pay passengers a single penny
peace with our own consciences and all the world.  But we did not go to sleep
pear in hue, and would seem to smell almost as musky; he cannot have been
peddling, you see, and I don't see what on airth keeps him so late, unless,
penniless.  In this world, shipmates, sin that pays its way can travel freely,
people had departed, and he was left alone in the place.
people still happier than they were; and more than that, still better than
people's hats off--then, I account it high time to get to sea as soon as I can.
perfectly still, and resolved not to say a word till spoken to.  Holding a
performing the part I did, besides cajoling me into the delusion that it was
perilous and long voyage ended, only begins a second; and a second ended,
persist in telling me the most mystifying and exasperating stories, tending
persuade.  And if we obey God, we must disobey ourselves; and it is in this
philosophy; though no doubt he had never heard there was such a thing as
physical isolation, he signifies his spiritual withdrawal for the time, from
picture's midst.  That once found out, and all the rest were plain.  But stop;
pictures that were in it.  Thus I soon engaged his interest; and from that we
pilot cloth jacket seemed almost to drag him to the floor with the weight of
pipe and passed it to me for a puff.  Capting!  Capting!  yelled the
pitch, all betokening that new cruises were on the start; that one most
placed himself over against the punchbowl, and between the High Priest and
placed in mine.  My arm hung over the counterpane, and the nameless,
places never are.  When a new-hatched savage running wild about his native
plane-iron came bump against an indestructible knot.  The landlord was near
plate now inserted into the Victory's plank where Nelson fell.  Ah, noble
please, and ten to one it carries you down in a dale, and leaves you there
pleasing to God was this conduct in Jonah, is shown in the eventual
pluck it out from under the robes of Senators and Judges.  Delight,
pocket, and places them carefully before the idol; then laying a bit of ship
pockets, and produced at length a curious little deformed image with a hunch
poison.  Though true cylinders without --within, the villanous green goggling
policy of insurance.  I was only alive to the condensed confidential
polite society of a civilized town, that astonishment soon departed upon
polite they are.  I pay this particular compliment to Queequeg, because he
politeness.  Clam or Cod?  she repeated.  A clam for supper?  a cold clam;
ponchos.  But could it be possible that any sober harpooneer would get into
pondered some time without fully comprehending the reason for this.  Father
popped out of the room, the harpooneer might be standing in the entry, all
position began to grow wearisome, and by little and little we found ourselves
poured them out brimmers all round.  One complained of a bad cold in his head,
power.  Nearly all joined in singing this hymn, which swelled high above the
prairie; that they wear quicksand shoes, something like Laplander snowshoes;
prefix so significant and infidel a word, and yet do not thus entitle him, if
present the whole story such as it may prove in the mere skeleton I give.
pretty
previous to putting your hand into the tar-pot, you have been lording it as a
pricking him, as the plungings of the Roman race-horse but so much the more
private when putting on his boots.  But Queequeg, do you see, was a creature
prodigious bed, almost big enough indeed for any four harpooneers to sleep
professor.  Yes, as every one knows, meditation and water are wedded for ever.
profound desire to learn among the Christians, the arts whereby to make his
prophet!  What
proved to be.  For now the savage goes up to the empty fireplace, and removing
pulled out a sort of tomahawk, and a seal-skin wallet with the hair on.
pulpit, it had not escaped me that however convenient for a ship, these
pulpit.  It was a negro church; and the preacher's text was about the
pursuit of him.  It was now about nine o'clock, and the room seeming almost
pushed on and opened a second, interior door.  It seemed the great Black
puzzled us at first, especially as, at the outset, Queequeg insisted that the
queer proceedings increased my uncomfortableness, and seeing him now
queer sort of place --a gable-ended old house, one side palsied as it were, and
quick foam from her bows, as a young colt his snortings.  How I snuffed that
quiet enough, and the dilapidated little wooden house itself looked as if it
quietest, most enchanting bit of romantic landscape in all the valley of the
quite as much as I can do to take care of myself, without taking care of
raging sea, feels not the reeling timbers, and little hears he or heeds he
rather Christians, had unfitted him for ascending the pure and undefiled
rather not sleep with your own brother.  I don't know how it is, but people
rather than to appal!  Woe to him whose good name is more to him than goodness!
rather too scarce a good thing; the more's the pity.  So, if any one man, in
ready to knock me down!  Still, looking around me again, and seeing no possible
rear of every funeral I meet; and especially whenever my hypos get such an
receiving the last items of her cargo; and as he steps on board to see its
red roses.  But roses only bloom in summer; whereas the fine carnation of
reflections just here are occasioned by the circumstance that after we were
refuse resurrections to the beings who have placelessly perished without a
regularly graded retreating slope from above the brows, which were likewise
regulating the circulation.  Whenever I find myself growing grim about the
relented, and told him he might make himself at home.  But this fine young
relief, As on a radiant dolphin borne; Awful, yet bright, as lightning shone
repentance; not clamorous for pardon, but grateful for punishment.  And how
representing a tall straight jet of misty spray, and these words underneath
respectable toils, trials, and tribulations of every kind whatsoever.  It is
rested on the projecting piece of scroll work, fashioned after a ship's
return, --as soon as he felt himself baptized again.  For the nonce, however,
reveries.  Some leaning against the spiles; some seated upon the pier-heads;
revulsion.  Nor did I at all object to the hint from Queequeg that perhaps it
roared the Captain, I'll kill-e you, you cannibal, if you try any more of
robbed a widow;" or,"Joe, do you mark him; he's a bigamist;" or,"Harry lad,
robust healthy boy with a robust healthy soul in him, at some time or other
rolling off --serenest azure is at hand.  Nor was the pulpit itself without a
room, he went about his business, and left me in a brown study.  I now took
room, wrapped up in his great pilot monkey jacket, and sporting his harpoon
room; and the ship, heeling over towards the wharf with the weight of the
round --you enter the public room.  A still duskier place is this, with such
round it; peeped in at Behring's Straits; and in all seasons and all oceans
round the waist, and said that henceforth we were married; meaning, in his
round, and all hands should rub each other's shoulder-blades, and be
rows to peer; and beyond, a black Angel of Doom was beating a book in a
rude shelf, the four walls, and a papered fireboard representing a man
rumor of a knocking in a tomb will terrify a whole city.  All these things
sadly vitiated, I fear, by the cannibal propensity he nourished in his
said, that though I had felt such a strong repugnance to his smoking in
said-- Clam or Cod?  What's that about Cods, ma'am?  said I, with much
sailor, I should now take it into my head to go on a whaling voyage; this
sailor, right before the mast, plumb down into the forecastle, aloft there
sallied out for a stroll.
same mess with me, in short to share my every hap; with both my hands in
same time resolves to help a flight that paves its rear with gold.  Yet when
sang out, I could not help it now; and giving a sudden grunt of astonishment
sat steadfastly eyeing several marble tablets, with black borders, masoned
savage --this sea Prince of Wales, never saw the captain's cabin.  They put him
savage those old rules would not apply.  After supper, and another social chat
savage's side, as if it were a hatchet-faced baby.  A pretty pickle, truly,
savage, he never would have dreamt of getting under the bed to put them on.
saw a glimmer of light come into the room from under the door.  Lord save me,
saw a swinging sign over the door with a white painting upon it, faintly
saw the traces of a simple honest heart; and in his large, deep eyes, fiery
say, because truly to enjoy bodily warmth, some small part of you must be
says I. Where is that harpooneer?  Is he here?  He'll be here afore long,
scanning him, half-pretending meanwhile to be looking out at the storm from
schooner moored at the wharf.  As we were going along the people stared; not
sea, and they began capering about most obstreperously.  I observed, however,
sea, explored this watery world; put an incessant belt of circumnavigations
sea-captains may order me about--however they may thump and punch me about, I
sea-shells, still multitudinously murmuring of the ocean --Jonah did the
sea.  In a few minutes, however, he was missed by his shipmates, and being,
seaman's bag, containing the harpooneer's wardrobe, no doubt in lieu of a
seamen in the inn.  He made no advances whatever; appeared to have no desire
seamen.  No man prefers to sleep two in a bed.  In fact, you would a good deal
seasoned with pepper and salt.  Our appetites being sharpened by the frosty
see Father Mapple after gaining the height, slowly turn round, and stooping
seeking to flee from Him.  He thinks that a ship made by men, will carry him
seemed far too premature, a thing to be much distrusted; but in this simple
seemed made up touching the character of his bedfellow, and he became, as it
seemed to be mightily tickled at something beyond my comprehension.  No, he
seeming ignominy, if thereby he might happily gain the power of enlightening
seeming to see just how matters were, dived down and disappeared.  A few
self-collectedness of simplicity seems a Socratic wisdom.  I had noticed also
self-containing stronghold --a lofty Ehrenbreitstein, with a perennial well
sending me to bed supperless, --my mother dragged me by the legs out of the
sense of delicacy, say what you will; it is marvellous how essentially
sense of weight and pressure that I could tell that Queequeg was hugging me.
serene household joy then.  I no more felt unduly concerned for the landlord's
service the soles of my boots were in a most miserable plight.  Too expensive
set of sea-dogs, many of whom without the slightest bashfulness had boarded
shades lighter; you might say a touch of satin wood is in him.  In the
shaggy jackets drawn about our shoulders, we now passed the Tomahawk from one
shelf over the fire-place, and a tall harpoon standing at the head of the
shepherd's eye were fixed upon the magic stream before him.  Go visit the
ship aboard the same vessel, get into the same watch, the same boat, the
ship were now out of sight of land?  Why did the old Persians hold the sea
ship, the angel seemed to say, beat on, beat on, thou noble ship, and
shipmate (though but a sleeping-partner one, so far as this narrative is
shipmates, as if it were a thing not to be overlooked in this history,"that he
ships did not find their own harpoons.  To this, in substance, he replied,
ships lay silent and safely moored at last; while from others came a sound of
ships, barques, brigs, schooners, and what not.  And as for going as cook, --
shirt.  Get along with ye, said she to the man, or I'll be combing ye!
shook himself all over like a Newfoundland dog just from the water, and sat
should see the comical things he does upon reaching the seaport.  In
shrieks of the storm.  Each silent worshipper seemed purposely sitting apart
side hung a very large oil-painting so thoroughly besmoked, and every way
side stood a long, low, shelf-like table covered with cracked glass cases,
sign of The Trap!  Moving on, I at last came to a dim sort of light not far
signs and sounds gave me to understand that, if it pleased me, he would
silence.  And not only that, but they looked embarrassed.  Yes, here were a
silenced me by pouring them into my trowsers' pockets.  I let them stay.  He
similar adventure.  And what is it, thought I, after all!  It's only his
singular; yet, upon second thoughts, there was something almost sublime in
sir, by trying to induce me to do so knowingly, would thereby render yourself
sit, and listen as you listen, while some one of you reads me that other
sitting up; the clothes well tucked around us, leaning against the
skrimshander.  I sought the landlord, and telling him I desired to be
slanting storm without seemed to add new power to the preacher, who, when
sleepy smoke.  Deep into distant woodlands winds a mazy way, reaching to
sleeves irregularly rolled up at various times --this same arm of his, I say,
slope, to show forth in one array, contrasting climates, zone by zone.
small clams will sometimes be found adhering, as to the backs of sea
snapping into splinters.  Nothing was done, and nothing seemed capable of
so many Alexanders; parcelling out among
so turned out that we should sleep together, he must undress and get into bed
so, it would depend upon who the harpooneer might be, and that if he (the
sober cannibal than a drunken Christian.  Landlord, said I, tell him to
sociable and free and easy were we; when, at last, by reason of our
soft enough to suit me, and I did not know how all the planing in the world
solemnity of the scene, there was a wondering gaze of incredulous curiosity
some looking over the bulwarks glasses!
some satisfactory conclusion concerning it.  I can compare it to nothing but a
some time while employed in unlacing the bag's mouth.  This accomplished,
something like this: Grand Contested Election for the Presidency of the
something that completely fascinated my attention, and convinced me that he
something which there was no mistaking.  Two enormous wooden pots painted
son of a King, and Queequeg budged not.  Struck by his desperate
soon, going to the table, took up a large book there, and placing it on his
sooty, so that I thought this fire-place made a very appropriate little shrine
sought a passage to Christian lands.  But the ship, having her full complement
sounded my pocket, and only brought up a few pieces of silver, --So,
speak more respectfully, not to say reverentially, of a broiled fowl than I
speak out and tell me who and what this harpooneer is, and whether I shall be
spell would be broken.  I knew not how this consciousness at last glided away
spent their wages in that place also, poor Queequeg gave it up for lost.
spoil the hilarity of his shipmates by his own sober face, yet upon the whole
spot of radiance upon the ship's tossed deck, something like that silver
spraining his wrist, and I told him for heaven's sake to quit -- the bed was
sprung up between me and Queequeg -- especially as Peter Coffin's cock and bull
squares; he seemed to have been in a Thirty Years' War, and just escaped from
stands the vast arched bone of the whale's jaw, so wide, a coach might
stash his tomahawk there, or pipe, or whatever you call it; tell him to
state-room ceiling almost resting on his forehead.  The air is close, and
stepmothers, and back I had to go to my room.  For several hours I lay there
still better seaward peep.  But these are all landsmen; of week days pent up
still intently eyeing him.  "No sooner, sir?" --"Soon enough for any honest man
still shivering greenhorn.  Kill-e, cried Queequeg, twisting his tattooed
stood between me and the door, I would have bolted out of it quicker than ever
stood invitingly open.  It had a careless look, as if it were meant for the
stop at this same New Bedford, thence to embark on their voyage, it may as
stop smoking, in short, and I will turn in with him.  But I don't fancy having
stories about him had previously so much alarmed me concerning the very person
story of Narcissus, who because he could not grasp the tormenting, mild image
straight out before him, and by turns revealing his brawny shoulders through
strain upon the main-sail had parted the weather-sheet, and the tremendous
strands in the mighty cable of the Scriptures.  Yet what depths of the soul
stranger entered the room, and without looking towards the bed, placed his
straps in the first howling gale, when thou art driven, straps, buttons, and
street-stalls of the earth, picking up whatever random allusions to whales 
streets, -- but at seeing him and me upon such confidential terms.  But we
streets, and the sound of gay voices all over the house.  I felt worse and
strike his steel tags into him; as one who in that miserable plight still
strike unsplinterable
striking a whale.  Of things not properly belonging to the room, there was a
striven to be Thine, more than to be this world's, or mine own.  Yet this is
such a height would, by its long angle with the floor, seriously contract the
such offices to those who like them.  For my part, I abominate all honorable
such tones he commenced reading the following hymn; but changing his manner
suddenly awakened fears, the swift punishment, repentance, prayers, and
sunny cold, to driving sleet and mist.  Wrapping myself in my shaggy jacket
sunset.  And that harpoon--so like a corkscrew now--was flung in Javan seas,
supernatural hand in mine were very similar, in their strangeness, to those
supernaturally quiet after these orgies, I began to congratulate myself upon
sure that I did not.  Returning from my first morning stroll, I again sallied
sure there is more in that man than you perhaps think for.  The bar-room was
swallow-tailed coat, girdled with a sailor-belt and sheath-knife.  Here comes
swelled apart; he showed his filed and pointed teeth.  On, on we flew, and
swept overboard; all hands were in a panic; and to attempt snatching at the
swinging sign had a poverty-stricken sort of creak to it, I thought that here
table, and mechanically dividing them into two equal portions, pushed one of
tablets sympathetically caused the old wounds to bleed afresh.  Oh!  ye whose
takes the harpoon from the bed corner, slips out the long wooden stock,
taking a long solitary walk on an empty stomach, in the negro heart of
taking my first daylight stroll through the streets of New Bedford.  In
tanning a white man into a purplish yellow one.  However, I had never been
tanning his hands.  Now when a country dandy like this takes it into his head
tapping his stern in mid-somerset, the fellow landed with bursting lungs upon
tell from what vile hole he had been coming?  Landlord!  I've changed my mind
tell me that that infernal harpooneer was a cannibal?  I thought ye know'd
tell you that they have to plant weeds there, they don't
tell, but his next movement was to crush himself --boots in hand, and hat on
tempest was upon them.  The lot is Jonah's; that discovered, then how
tempestuous Euroclydon.  Euroclydon!  says old Dives, in his red silken
ten.  Well; when all the wedding guests were assembled at the bride's bamboo
that I am in the habit of going to sea whenever I begin to grow hazy about the
that I ever heard of.  On the contrary, passengers themselves must pay.  And
that Lazarus should lie stranded there on the curbstone before the door of
that Queequeg never consorted at all, or but very little, with the other
that bloom of theirs, ye cannot, save in Salem, where they tell me the young
that goes a passenger."  Ha!  Jonah, that's another stab.  But he swiftly calls
that harpooneer is a dangerous man.  He pays reg'lar, was the rejoinder.
that he was a Southerner, and from his fine stature, I thought he must be
that indignity amount to, weighed, I mean, in the scales of the New
that it was high time for the Captain to mind his own eye.  The prodigious
that joyful hour; I give the glory to my God, His all the mercy and the
that no way of reaching that place would offer, till the following Monday.  As
that one of them held somewhat aloof, and though he seemed desirous not to
that though what I hinted was true enough, yet he had a particular affection
that too without delay.  I come to your house and want a bed; you tell me you
that way.  And the man that has anything bountifully laughable about him, be
that yarn to me --I'm not green.  May be not, taking out a stick and
that, Sal said it wouldn't do.  Come along here, I'll give ye a glim in a
that, in the dog-days, will mow his two acres in buckskin gloves for fear of
that.  But, perhaps, to be true philosophers, we mortals should not be
the Acushnet river.  On
the Captain, "there's thy room."  Jonah enters, and would lock the door,
the Green Mountains.  A curious sight; these bashful bears, these timid
the Moluccas.  Yet Dives himself, he too lives like a Czar in an ice palace
the New England coast, and carried off an infant Indian in his talons.  With
the Off-shore Ground in the Pacific, December 31st,
the Priest, and noting the ceremony, and thinking himself --being Captain of
the Red-Men, first sally out in canoes to give chase to the Leviathan?  And
the affrighted ladies.  Regent street is not unknown to Lascars and Malays;
the axe and snatch the whale-lance.  Many are as green as the Green Mountains
the bar-room accosted the grinning landlord very pleasantly.  I cherished no
the barrow from my hand to his, he told me a funny story about the first
the battery, where that noble mole is washed by waves, and cooled by
the bed the night before, yet see how elastic our stiff prejudices grow when
the bed, but he had disappeared.  Folding back the counterpane, I stooped
the bed-side, I got up and took off my monkey jacket, and then stood in the
the behavior of poor Jonah.  The eager mariners but ask him who he is, and
the benediction some time.  He was sitting on a bench before the fire, with
the best of it; and when the sailors find him not to be the man that is
the boarders, seemed amazingly tickled at the sudden friendship which had
the bottom of the sea.  This ended, in prolonged solemn tones, like the
the bowl before the blessed beverage circulates.  Seeing himself placed next
the casement, he never heeded my presence, never troubled himself with so
the compasses of all those ships attract them thither?  Once more.  Say, you
the congregation, sufficiently attested that this fine old man was the
the deep shadows of his eyes floated some reminiscences that did not seem to
the ducks, glance upwards to the great Giver of all feasts --Grace, I say,
the embalmed head to a barber, for a block, I settled my own and comrade's
the far rush of the mighty whale, which even now with open mouth is cleaving
the flood; most monstrous and most mountainous!  That Himmalehan, salt-sea
the freezing foam.  I looked at the grand and glorious fellow, but saw no one
the frightened master comes to him, and shrieks in his dead ear, "What
the frost is on both sides, and of which the wight Death is the only
the goods, to mark the stranger's evil eye.  Jonah sees this; but in vain he
the harpooneer is a dark complexioned chap.  He never eats dumplings, he
the head of the table, too, it so chanced; as cool as an icicle.  To be sure
the idol up very unceremoniously, and bagged it again in his grego pocket
the inmates of the place one lodges in.  By reason of these things, then, the
the inn, under a dull red lamp swinging there, that looked much like an
the invisible police officer of the Fates, who has the constant surveillance
the island; that is, dipping his consecrated and consecrating fingers into
the kelpy bottom of the waters; sea-weed and all the slime of the sea is
the kitchen served to belie the apparently cheerless prospect before us.  But
the lamp more and
the landless gull, that at sunset folds her wings and is rocked to sleep
the leaves of the Bible, and at last, folding his hand down upon the proper
the lifetime of his God?  He said no more, but slowly waving a benediction,
the light, that I plainly saw they could not be sticking-plasters at all,
the living God.  How being an anointed pilot-prophet, or speaker of true
the measure of the bench, and found that it was a foot too short; but that
the mentioning; so, after a fine run, we safely arrived in Nantucket.
the missing murderers from Sodom."  Another runs to read the bill that's stuck
the most part the Commodore on the quarter-deck gets his atmosphere at second
the neck.  I sat down on the side of the bed, and commenced thinking about
the opening maw of hell, With endless pains and sorrows there; Which none but
the opinion of learned men.  And where is Cadiz, shipmates?  Cadiz is in
the outside, or whether thou observest it from that sashless window, where
the papered fire-board, sets up this little hunchbacked image, like a tenpin,
the passer-by their tapering upright cones of congregated blossoms.  So
the people laugh?  Upon this, he told me another story.  The people of his
the picture lies thus tranced, and though this pine-tree shakes down its sighs
the present, ushered us into a little room, and seating us at a table spread
the pulpit's bows, folded his large brown hands across his chest, uplifted his
the red-men.  Thus goes the legend.  In olden times an eagle swooped down upon
the rest into the public room, lighted his tomahawk-pipe, and was sitting
the rest of his toilet was soon achieved, and he proudly marched out of the
the revelry of his companions had mounted to its height, this man slipped
the sailors did there; and then going on to Nantucket, and seeing how they
the same calling, all of kindred tastes --looking round as sheepishly at
the same squares as his face; his back, too, was all over the same dark
the seas after him.  Aye, shipmates, Jonah was gone down into the sides of
the segment made in the new-mown grass by a long-armed mower.  You shuddered
the ship --a berth in the cabin as I have taken it, and was fast asleep.  But
the side with a long living arc of a leap.  For three
the sign of The Crossed Harpoons --but it looked too expensive and jolly
the sin of this son of Amittai was in his wilful disobedience of the command
the street, and hear the sounds of the tinkling glasses within.  But go on,
the sun shining in at the window, and a great rattling of coaches in the
the thought of sleeping with him.  It was fair to presume that being a
the time, but I could not help staring at this gallows with a vague
the trappings of some unceasing grief, that I feel sure that here before me
the wash-stand centre-table, dipped it into water and commenced lathering his
the water it had absorbed.  However, hat and coat and overshoes were one by
the waves of the billows of the seas of the boisterous mob can never shake
the week, that quarter of the town proved all but deserted.  But presently I
the window, and both together formed a series of small whirlwinds in the
their adieux.  At last, after much dodging search, he finds the Tarshish ship
their cheeks is perennial as sunlight in the seventh heavens.  Elsewhere match
their clothes, and tried to talk their gibberish.  Hence the queer ways about
their daughters, and portion off their nieces with a few porpoises a-piece.
their gamesome but still serious way, one whispers to the other --"Jack, he's
their hands upon him.  Frighted Jonah trembles, and summoning all his
their huge bake-houses the pyramids.  No, when I go to sea, I go as a simple
their own scythes --though in no wise obliged to furnished them -- even so,
them again, showed a deep joy in his eyes, as he cried out with a heavenly
them the Atlantic, Pacific, and Indian oceans, as the three pirate powers did
them towards me, and said it was mine.  I was going to remonstrate; but he
then begin again at the next fifty; seeming to commence at number one each
then went about his evening prayers, took out his idol, and removed the
then, shipmates, that Jonah sought to flee world-wide from God?  Miserable
then, that these Nantucketers, born on a beach, should take to the sea for a
then.  But be easy, be easy, this here harpooneer I have been tellin' you of
there floated into my inmost soul, endless processions of the whale, and, mid
there is all the difference in the world between paying and being paid.  The
there is no one who will
there open the very bottom of their souls to each other; and some old couples
there plant toadstools before their houses, to get under the shade in summer
there quietly digesting and smoking with his inseparable hat on, when I
there yet lurked any ice of indifference towards me in the Pagan's breast,
there, chattering his teeth against the curbstone for his pillow, and shaking
there, frozen with the most awful fears, not daring to drag away my hand;
there.  Further on, from the bright red windows of the Sword-Fish Inn, there
there.  Ha, Ishmael, muttered I, backing out, Wretched entertainment at the
there?" cries the Captain at his busy desk, hurriedly making out his papers
therefore three cheers for Nantucket; and come a stove boat and stove body
therefore, was not reading those frigid inscriptions on the wall.  Whether any
these were rusty old whaling lances and harpoons all broken and deformed.
they say, and I suppose this Peter here is an emigrant from there.  As the
they tell no tales, though containing more secrets than the Goodwin Sands;
they that feel can tell-- Oh, I was plunging to despair.  In black distress,
they waded out with nets for mackerel; more experienced, they pushed off in
they were.  But, alas!  the practices of whalemen soon convinced him that even
thick in a hard, asphaltic pavement, --rather weary for me, when I struck my
thieves entailed upon us.  But being paid, --what will compare with it?  The
things, and bidden by the Lord to sound those unwelcome truths in the ears of
things, including my own poor carpet-bag, and Queequeg's canvas sack and
thinks I, that must be the harpooneer, the infernal head-peddler.  But I lay
thinks I. A Coffin my Innkeeper upon landing in my first whaling port;
this blessed Saturday night, or rather Sunday morning, in peddling his head
this book, containing only four chapters --four yarns --is one of the smallest
this head-peddling harpooneer, and his door mat.  After thinking some time on
this in not only a civil but a really kind and charitable way.  I stood
this is full of meaning.  Now Jonah's Captain, shipmates, was one whose
this pleasant, genial smoke we had, soon thawed it out, and left us cronies.
this punchbowl always forms the great central ornament on the braided mat
this raging tumult, Jonah sleeps his hideous sleep.  He sees no black sky and
this sin of disobedience in him, Jonah still further flouts at God, by
this sort of deliciousness is to have nothing but the blanket between you and
this sort of thing is unpleasant enough.  It touches one's sense of honor,
this wild cannibal, tomahawk between his teeth, sprang into bed with me.  I
this wild idolator in worshipping his piece of wood?  But what is worship?
this, nowhere in all America will you find more patrician-like houses; parks
this.  I had been cutting up some caper or other --I think it was trying to
thoroughfares nigh the docks, any considerable seaport will frequently offer
those ancient days, when the Atlantic was an almost unknown sea.  Because
those black squares on his cheeks.  they were stains of some sort or other.  At
those days, jonah, on the mere suspicion of something wrong, had been arrested
though I confess there is considerable glory in that, a cook being a sort of
though I tried to move his arm --unlock his bridegroom clasp --yet, sleeping
though by no law of propriety that I ever heard of, is any man required to be
though he was, and hideously marred about the face --at least to my taste --
thought I. Do you suppose now, Ishmael, that the magnanimous God of heaven
thought I; abed here in a strange house in the broad day, with a cannibal and
thought i to myself --the man's a human being just as I am: he has just as
thought, fancied, and sung of Leviathan, by many nations and generations,
three days landed from his Indian voyage.  That man next him looks a few
three mast-heads.  The opposite wall of this entry was hung all over with a
thrice; kissed his nose; and that done, we undressed and went to bed, at
throne of thirty pagan Kings before him.  But by and by, he said, he would
throwing open the little window towards the back of the entry, you at last
tidiest, certainly none of the finest.  I began to twitch all over.  Besides,
till poor Queequeg took his last long dive.  Was there ever such
time, as though he could not count more than fifty, and it was only by such
time; that one blade of grass makes an oasis, three blades in a day's walk a
to a distant strait, which he knew the ship must pass through when she quitted
to address him, and demand a satisfactory answer concerning what seemed
to be saved.  The greenhorn had gone down.  Shooting himself perpendicularly
to be seen, and nothing was to be heard; but a supernatural hand seemed
to beget in me an uncomfortable feeling towards the man whom
to churches.  He wanted to, last Sunday, but I stopped him just as he was
to do --remember that --and hence, he oftener commands us than endeavors to
to enlarge the circle of his acquaintances.  All this struck me as mighty
to explain the mystery.  Nay, to this very hour, I often puzzle myself with
to explain to him the purpose of the printing, and the meaning of the few
to feel myself mysteriously drawn towards him.  And those same things that
to his canvas trowsers.  Ah, poor Hay-Seed!  how bitterly will burst those
to interest me on shore, I thought I would sail about a little and see the
to kill time, and with a bitter sigh got between the sheets.  I lay there
to let it go, though hacked in pieces.  In vain the captain threatened to throw
to lodge for the night, my dear Ishmael, be sure to inquire the price, and
to look out upon the sea.  But at that moment he is sprung upon by a panther
to make a distinguished reputation, and joins the great whale-fishery, you
to me with his tomahawk, and throwing the clothes to one side.  He really did
to one, who, like me, was wholly ignorant of the mysteries of whaling, though
to sail out of Nantucket, as being the most promising port for an adventurous
to settle down in.  But I soon found that there came such a draught of cold
to the other, till slowly there grew over us a blue hanging tester of smoke,
to the royal mast-head.  True, they rather order me about some, and make me
to the westward from that, just outside the Straits of Gibraltar.  See ye not
to them to take him and cast him forth into the sea, for he knew that for
to view the queerest looking nondescripts from foreign parts.  Even in
tobacco, drew out some thirty dollars in silver; then spreading them on the
together the night previous, and especially considering the affectionate arm
tolerably well.  I then glanced round the room; and besides the bedstead and
tomahawk from the table, he examined the head of it for an instant, and then
tomahawk scattered the hot tobacco ashes about me till I thought
tomahawk!  But there was no time for shuddering, for now the savage went about
tombs, and even from these dead doubts she gathers her most vital hope.  It
tombstones staring at me in the whalemen's chapel; and here a gallows!  and a
too, that his head being shaved, his forehead was drawn out in freer and
top-mast, planted in front of an old doorway.  The horns of the cross-trees
tossed craft.  Euroclydon, nevertheless, is a mighty pleasant zephyr to any
touching tophet?  I was called from these reflections by the sight of a
towards the concluding stanzas, burst forth with a pealing exultation and joy
towards the land of Nod, when I heard a heavy footfall in the passage, and
trace of the same sea-taste that had achieved the ladder and the picture.  Its
tract of land would this day perhaps have been in as howling condition as the
transition is a keen one, I assure you, from the schoolmaster to a sailor,
travelled full forty feet, and at last was found imbedded in the hump.
treacherous world has gone down beneath him.  Delight is to him, who gives
treated me with so much civility and consideration, while I was guilty of
tries to look all ease and confidence; in vain essays his wretched smile.
troubled himself with boots at all; but then, if he had not been still a
troubled nightmare of a doze; and slowly waking from it --half steeped in
true I take to be good evidence that this harpooneer is stark mad, and I've
true substance.  Methinks that in looking at things spiritual, we are too much
try this experiment, if your caravan happen to be supplied with a metaphysical
tumbled into bed, and commended myself to the care of heaven.  Whether that
turning sideways was surprised to see Queequeg near me.  Affected by the
turns and turns in giddy anguish, praying God for annihilation until the fit
turtles.  But these extravaganzas only show that Nantucket is no Illinois.
twelve o'clock.  The landlord chuckled again with his lean chuckle, and
twenty years as a substitute for blotting paper.  Some gamesome wights will
two thirds of this terraqueous globe are the Nantucketer's.  For the sea is
unassuming authority ordered the scattered people to condense.  Starboard
unbecomingness of his hugging a fellow male in that matrimonial sort of style,
unbidden infidelities in the lines that seem to gnaw upon all Faith, and
uncommonly shaggy and thick, and I thought a little damp, as though this
unconsciousness?  He did not seem to think that he at all deserved a medal
undeliverable, nameless perils of the whale; these, with all the attending
undulating tester rolled the savage away to far distant scenes, I know not,
unendurable length of time.  But she was the best and most conscientious of
ungraspable phantom of life; and this is the key to it all.  Now, when I say
unheeded reel about the streets, you will see other sights still more
unilluminated twelve-o'clock-at-night, I experienced a disagreeable
unimaginable sublimity about it that fairly froze you to it, till you
unimaginable, silent form or phantom, to which the hand belonged, seemed
unsheathes the head, whets it a little on his boot, and striding up to the
unstirring paralysis, and deadly, hopeless trance, yet lies antique Adam who
untutored youth.  A Sag Harbor ship visited his father's bay, and Queequeg
up in bed, stiff as a pike-staff, looking at me, and rubbing his eyes as if
up into little flakes; the whole enriched with butter, and plentifully
upon learning that the little packet for Nantucket had already sailed, and
upon this once scraggy scoria of a country?  Go and gaze upon the iron
upon us silent, solitary twain; the storm booming without in solemn swells;
upon which Jonah mixed him a pitch-like potion of gin and molasses, which
upper hand of me, that it requires a strong moral principle to prevent me
urbane activity with which a man receives money is really marvellous,
us twain.  I now strove to rouse him --
uses of the public; so, entering, the first thing I did was to stumble over
ushered into a small room, cold as a clam, and furnished, sure enough, with a
using it there without ceremony; reaching over the table with it, to the
very civilized overture; but, the truth is, these savages have an innate
very panics are more to be dreaded than his most fearless and malicious
very projecting, like two long promontories thickly wooded on top.  Queequeg
very strange.  But savages are strange beings; at times you do not know
view into the room, and observing more and more the indecorous figure that
voyage, I regarded those marble tablets, and by the murky light of that
voyage, and in particular, Queequeg seeing his favorite fishing food before
voyage, formed part of the grand programme of Providence that was drawn up a
wainscots, reminding one of the bulwarks of some condemned old craft.  On one
wait a bit, Skrimshander; I've
warm his blue hands by holding them up to the grand northern lights?  Would
warm spark in the heart of an arctic crystal.  We had been sitting in this
warrior whalemen!  But as for Queequeg --why, Queequeg sat there among them --at
was George Washington cannibalistically developed.  Whilst I was thus closely
was a reality or a dream, I never could entirely settle.  The circumstance was
was a very dubious-looking, nay, a very dark and dismal night, bitingly cold
was deposited within, leaving him impregnable in his little Quebec.  I
was jonah.  but the sea rebels; he will not bear the wicked burden.  A
was no yoking them.  I then placed the first bench lengthwise along the only
was not at all limber, and that it glistened a good deal like polished ebony,
was now quite plain that he must be some abominable savage or other shipped
was of a dark purplish, yellow color, here and there stuck over with large,
was put out, to break the spell into which I had so long been bound.  But the
was safe.  The schooner was run into the wind, and while the hands were
was stranded.  Where else but from Nantucket did those aboriginal whalemen,
was the answer.  I could not help it, but I began to feel suspicious of this
was the very spot for cheap lodgings, and the best of pea coffee.  It was a
water -- something to wipe the brine off; that done, he put on dry clothes,
water of young cocoanuts into a large stained calabash like a punchbowl; and
water the thinnest of air.  Methinks my body is but the lees of my better
water-line, Jonah feels the heralding presentiment of that stifling hour, when
waters when God has brewed them into a gale!  Woe to him who seeks to please
waters.  They resolved to follow in the same direction.  Setting out in their
watery part of the world.  It is a way I have of driving off the spleen, and
way in which to manage the barrow --Queequeg puts his chest upon it; lashes
wedding feast of Queequeg's sister, a pretty young princess just turned of
well acquainted with the sea, as known to merchant seamen.  His story being
well be related that I, for one, had no idea of so doing.  For my mind was
went to jabbering the best we could about the various outer sights to be seen
were assembled those, in whose unhealing hearts the sight of those bleak
were best to strike a light, seeing that we were so wide awake; and besides
were sawed off on the other side, so that this old top-mast looked not a
were well worth unusual regarding.  He commenced dressing at top by donning his
were wrapped about his head," and all the watery world of woe bowled over
were, reconciled to the fact; he jumped out upon the floor, and by certain
whale statements, however authentic, in these extracts, for veritable gospel
whaleman to embark from.  He at once resolved to accompany me to that island,
whaling voyage was welcome; the great flood-gates of the wonder-world swung
whaling; to my no small surprise, nearly every man maintained a profound
what in old times must have been a great central chimney with fire-places all
wheelbarrow he had ever seen.  It was in Sag Harbor.  The owners of his ship,
when I came to know of what fine steel the head of a harpoon is made, and how
when I had become more familiar with his broken phraseology, now enable me to
when for scores on scores of miles you wade knee-deep among Tiger-lilies--what
when others were set down for magnificent parts in high tragedies, and short
when our smoke was over, he pressed his forehead against mine, clasped me
when that smoking chowder came in, the mystery was delightfully explained.
when they will, for stave my soul, Jove himself cannot.
whence comest thou?  thy country?  what people?" but mark now, my shipmates,
whence they came.  In some things you would think them but a few hours old.
where but from Nantucket, too, did that first adventurous little sloop put
where from; whereas, they not only receive an answer to those questions, but
where the eddying depths sucked him ten thousand fathoms down, and"the weeds
where the feast is held.  Now a certain grand merchant ship once touched at
wherefore it was that after having repeatedly smelt the sea as a merchant
wherever you go, Ishmael, said I to myself, as I stood in the middle of a
whether thou lookest out at it from a glass window where the frost is all on
which I experienced on waking up and seeing Queequeg's pagan arm thrown round
which amazingly pleased me.  Besides though New Bedford has of late been
which is one of the luxurious discomforts of the rich.  For the height of
while all his sympathetic shipmates now crowd round Jonah, prepared to lay
whittling a toothpick, but I rayther guess you'll be done brown if that ere
whom I had not as yet had a good look at.  They were nearly all whalemen;
whom I now companied with.  We borrowed a wheelbarrow, and embarking our
will not venture to decide; but certain it was his head was phrenologically
will of God -- that is worship.  And what is the will of God? --to do to my
will.  It is out of the idolatrous dotings of the old Egyptians upon broiled
wind Euroclydon kept up a worse howling than ever it did about poor Paul's
window, but it was the second floor back.  I am no coward, but what to make
winter scene. --It's the breaking-up of the ice-bound stream of Time.  But at
wish.  With other men, perhaps, such things would not have been inducements;
with a different flavor, and in good time a fine cod-chowder was placed
with the darkness towards the south --wherever in your wisdom you may conclude
with the relics of a recently concluded repast, turned round to us and
with whom I conversed upon the subject.  The picture represents a Cape-Horner
withal; he doubtless has tarried whole weeks ashore.  But who could show a
withdrawals of his fingers (whereby he seemed to be scorching them badly),
without some little chat.  How it is I know not; but there is no place like a
without winking; and yet, here they sat at a social breakfast table --all of
wives and widows.  A muffled silence reigned, only broken at times by the
woe is
wood, so that at every step there was a joint.  At my first glimpse of the
woodlands in a grass clout, followed by the nibbling goats, as if he were a
working away at the knotted cords of the large bag I before spoke of as being
works I possess the only copy extant -- it maketh a marvellous difference,
world charms from Gospel duty!  Woe to him who seeks to pour oil upon the
world it occupies; how it stands there, away off shore, more lonely than the
world's a ship on its passage out, and not a voyage complete; and the pulpit
world, in all meridians.  We cannibals must help these Christians.
world.  This soothing savage had redeemed it.  There he sat, his very
worse --at last I got up, dressed, and softly going down in my stockinged
worship.  consequently, i must then unite with him in his; ergo, I must turn
would I come down from this mast-head and sit on the hatches there where you
would almost fancy you trod some old craft's cockpits, especially of such a
would do to me?  Why, unite with me in my particular Presbyterian form of
would have repelled most others, they were the very magnets that thus drew
would not do to be sellin' human heads about the streets when folks is goin'
wrapper --(he had a redder one afterwards) pooh, pooh!  What a fine frosty
years he knows not the land; so that when he comes to it at last, it smells
yellow warehouse --our first point of departure --must be left on the larboard
yet carry on their bones unholy flesh.  It makes a stranger stare.  But,
yet ever thinking that if I could but stir it one single inch, the horrid
you design for my bedfellow --a sort of connexion, landlord, which is an
you found yourself in a wide, low, straggling entry with old-fashioned
you through. --It's the Black Sea in a midnight gale. --It's the unnatural
you what it is, landlord, said I, quite calmly, you'd better stop spinning
you will be so good as to unsay that story about selling his head, which if
you; both his hands press upon me.  I have read ye by what murky light may
your coming.  Here ye strike but splintered hearts together i{there}, ye shall
your friends who have gone before are clearing out the seven-storied heavens,
your own hammock, and cover yourself with your own blanket, and sleep in your
your patched boots are stopping the way.  So on I went.  I now by instinct
your snugness and the cold of the outer air.  Then there you lie like the one
your tricks aboard here; so mind your eye.  But it so happened just then,
yourself comfortable now, and good night to ye.  I turned round from eyeing
yourself feel such a mystical vibration, when first told that you and your
