


































     A penny roll would choke him; his swallow is so very small.  But, to this,
     Bashaw assails him, and chases him away!  High times, indeed, if
     Being horizontal in its position, the Leviathan's tail acts in a different
     Bishop Jebb's anticipative answer is ready.  It is not necessary, hints the
     Gallow the very wanderers of the dark And make them keep their caves.  To
     I had the curiosity to place a mirror before me; and ere long saw reflected
     No ribs of man or boat can withstand it.  Your only salvation lies in eluding
     Other poets have warbled the praises of
     Reference was made to
     That for six thousand years --and no one
     The long and narrow peninsula of
     The previous chapter
     The same secludedness and isolation to which the schoolmaster whale betakes
     To make them run easily and swiftly,
     With a fair, fresh wind, the Pequod was now drawing nigh to these straits;
     and as that long canal --like the grand Erie Canal --is furnished with a sort
     and for several feet laid along, horizontally, just beneath the upper
     and, I would add, possibly called The Whale, as some craft are nowadays
     breach --somewhere else to be described --this peaking of the whale's flukes is
     but it seems to me, that in the whale the sense of touch is concentrated in
     but the Vedas, or mystical books, whose perusal would seem to have been
     circle, where abundance of room and some convenient retreats were afforded
     or be content to lose him.  But to haul the boat up to his flank was
     or how do you know that they are not those identical drops superficially
     or whether that exhaled breath is mixed with water taken in at the mouth,
     originally invented by the Nantucket Indians, called druggs.  Two thick
     power of speed to rid himself of the iron leech that had fastened to him; as
     strips off a frock, and the hole is stopped.  Third: I cannot demonstrate it,
     then a love of ease and virtue supplants the love for maidens; our Ottoman
     till it almost seemed that some spell had suddenly domesticated them.
     to hold this so-called dragon no other than the great Leviathan himself.  In
     whether the spout of the Sperm Whale is the mere vapor of the exhaled breath,
     yet, even at the present day, we occasionally hear of English and American
),
--glorified by a rainbow, as if Heaven itself had put its seal upon his
--scrape away!  The boat was now all but jammed between two vast black bulks,
--though as yet a mile in their rear, --than they rallied again, and forming in
--upper, middle, and lower.  The fibres in the upper and lower layers, are long
.. < chapter lxxxiii 26  JONAH HISTORICALLY REGARDED >
.. < chapter lxxxiv 2  PITCHPOLING >
.. < chapter lxxxv 11  THE FOUNTAIN >
.. < chapter lxxxvi 16  THE TAIL >
.. < chapter lxxxvii 6  THE GRAND ARMADA >
.. < chapter lxxxviii 28  SCHOOLS AND SCHOOLMASTERS >
.. <p 362 >
.. <p 362 >
.. <p 363 >
.. <p 364 >
.. <p 365 >
.. <p 366 >
.. <p 367 >
.. <p 367 >
.. <p 368 >
.. <p 369 >
.. <p 370 >
.. <p 371 >
.. <p 372 >
.. <p 372 >
.. <p 373 >
.. <p 374 >
.. <p 375 >
.. <p 376 >
.. <p 376n. >
.. <p 377 >
.. <p 377 >
.. <p 378 >
.. <p 379 >
.. <p 380 >
.. <p 381 >
.. <p 382 >
.. <p 382n. >
.. <p 383 >
.. <p 384 >
.. <p 385 >
.. <p 386 >
.. <p 387 >
.. <p 387n. >
.. <p 388 >
.. <p 389 >
.. <p 389 >
.. <p 390 >
.. <p 391 >
.. <p 392 >
Ahab purposing to pass through them into the Javan sea, and thence, cruising
Ahab to-and-fro paced the deck; in his forward turn beholding the monsters he
Arnold, at the battle of Saratoga, carrying dismay wherever he went.  But
As a general thing, therefore, you must first get fast to a whale, before any
As if too long lurking behind the headlands, till the Pequod should fairly
Australia, and dividing the long unbroken Indian ocean from the thickly
Baltic, and the Propontis.  Unlike the Danes, these Orientals do not demand the
Besides, it has been divined by other continental commentators, that when
Bishop, that we consider Jonah as tombed in the whale's belly, but as
But as if this vast local power in the tendinous tail were not enough, the
But far beneath this wondrous world upon the surface, another and still
But owing to the mystery of the spout --whether it be water or whether it be
But upon flinging the third, in the act of tossing overboard the clumsy
Crockett and Kit Carson --that brawny doer of rejoicing good deeds, was
English words --the etymological Howards and Percys --are now democratised, nay,
Equator awhile, they start for the Oriental waters in anticipation of the
Every one knows that by the peculiar cunning of their gills, the finny tribes
Furthermore, as his windpipe solely opens into the tube of his spouting canal,
Good Hope at so early a day would wrest the honor of the discovery of that
Hercules and the whale, and Arion and the dolphin;
Hercules, Jonah, and Vishnoo!  there's a member-roll for you!  What club but
It is an old Saxon word.  It occurs once in Shakespeare: -- The wrathful skies
Japan, in time for the great whaling season there.  By these means, the
Java Head; they not a little correspond to the central gateway opening into
Jonah merely meant a life-preserver --an inflated bag of wind --which the
Jonah was thrown overboard from the Joppa ship, he straightway effected his
Leviathan's tail, his trunk is but the stalk of a lily.  The most direful
Lord; --Vishnoo, who, by the first of his ten earthly incarnations, has for
Malacca, extending south-eastward from the territories of Birmah, forms the
Mosque built in honor of Jonah, in which mosque was a miraculous lamp that
Nevertheless, the boats pursued, and Stubb's was foremost.  By great exertion,
New-England rocks with the noble brawn of the old English emigrants in the
Nor do heroes, saints, demigods, and prophets alone comprise the whole roll of
Now, if after he fetches a few
Oh!  happy that the world is such an excellent listener!  Now, the spouting
One of these little infants, that from certain queer tokens seemed hardly a
Pequod's deck, then, as she would rise on a high hill of the sea, this host
Portuguese Catholic priest, this very idea of Jonah's going to Nineveh via
Possibly, too, Jonah might have ensconced himself in a hollow tooth; but, on
Queequeg patted their foreheads; Starbuck scratched their backs with his
Russian campaign turned their dead horses into tents, and crawled into them.
Sag-Harbor (he went by that name) urged for his want of faith in this matter
Sag-Harbor, therefore, seems worsted all round.  But he had still another
Should any unwarrantably pert young Leviathan coming that way, presume to
Sperm Whale into such immense caravans, may be imputed the circumstance that
Sperm Whale's tail to begin at that point of the trunk where it tapers to
Surely, he will stop for water.  Nay.  For a long time, now, the circus-running
Tashtego at last succeeded in planting one iron; but the stricken whale,
The first and second were successfully darted, and we saw the whales
The result of this lowering was somewhat illustrative of that sagacious saying
The sperm whale, as with all other species of the Leviathan, but unlike
They are comparatively delicate, indeed; I dare say, not to exceed half a
Third, in sweeping; Fourth, in lobtailing; Fifth, in peaking flukes.  First:
Thou shalt see my back parts, my tail, he seems to say, but my face shall not
Though all comparison in the way of general bulk between the whale and the
Though such a movement on the part of the whale struck under such
Tigris, very much more than three days' journey across from the nearest point
To gally, or gallow, is to frighten excessively --to confound with fright.
Turks; for these Grand Turks are too lavish of their strength, and hence
What tenderness there is in that preliminary touch!  Had this tail any
When serenely advancing on one of these journeys, if any strange suspicious
Whether to admit Hercules among us or not, concerning this I long remained
Witness, too, all human beings, how when herded together in the sheepfold of
You meet them on the Line in time for the full flower of the Equatorial
You would almost think a great gun had been discharged; and if you noticed
a Nantucketer with disdain, since even in our woollen frocks and tarred
a cracked rib or a dashed plank or two, a sort of stitch in the side, is
a large herd of whales in the east, all heading towards the sun, and for a
a moment, till they downwards shoot out of view.  Excepting the sublime
a season when he might most reasonably be presumed to be haunting it.  But how
a theatre's pit, they will, at the slightest alarm of fire, rush
abominable, devilish rebellion against the reverend clergy.  For by a
about the girth of a man, it comprises upon its upper surface alone, an area
accidentally takes in water.  But the Sperm Whale's food is far beneath the
accidents of the fishery, this whale had become entangled in the harpoon-line
accommodate a couple of whist tables, and comfortably seat all the players.
accompanied by all the solaces and endearments of the harem.  The contrast
act of thinking deep thoughts.  While composing a little treatise on Eternity,
action of sweeping, when in maidenly gentleness the whale with a certain soft
actually harpooned his fish, unless, indeed, from the inside.  Nevertheless,
after six cups of hot tea in my thin shingled attic, of an August noon; this
afterwards killed at your leisure.  Hence it is, that at times like these the
again, he will be sure to have his seventy breaths over again, to a minute.
ago, an English traveller in old Harris's Voyages, speaks of a Turkish
agonizing as was the wound of this whale, and an appalling spectacle enough,
ahab quickly revolved in his pivot-hole, crying, aloft there, and rig whips
air; then smiting the surface, the thunderous concussion resounds for miles.
alights; less celestial, I celebrate a tail.  Reckoning the largest sized
all alone among the meridians and parallels saying his prayers, and warning
all answers to his nose is that identical spout-hole; and being so clogged
all beings.  For according to King Juba, the military elephants of antiquity
all herding creatures.  Though banding together in tens of thousands, the
all his other unmolested risings.  Say he stays eleven minutes, and jets
all over the world; every baby an exotic.  In good time, nevertheless, as the
all the time, Starbuck stood up in the bows, lance in hand, pricking out of
all these conceits had passed through his brain, Ahab's brow was left gaunt
all.
almost entirely of females, and those mustering none but young vigorous
almost seem as if numerous nations of them had sworn solemn league and
almost stand in it, and yet be undecided as to what it is precisely.  The
along its length to see if it be exactly straight, Stubb whistlingly gathers
alternating with the stone in those wonderful relics of the antique, and
always of the largest leviathanic proportions, the ladies, even at full
among gallied whales that this drugg is used.  For then, more whales are close
ancient one.  Like venerable moss-bearded Daniel Boone, he will have no one
and after several hours' pulling were almost disposed to renounce the chase,
and as human infants while suckling will calmly and fixedly gaze away from the
and buckets to wet the sails; --Malays, sir, and after us!
and discharged through the spiracle.  It is certain that the mouth indirectly
and horizontal; those of the middle one, very short, and running crosswise
and kentledge.  She carries years' water in her.  Clear old prime Nantucket
and like King Porus' elephants in the Indian battle with Alexander, they
and never will.  But if I know not even the tail of this whale, how
and ribbed, like the black sand beach after some stormy tide has been gnawing
and silks, and jewels, and gold, and ivory, with which the thousand islands of
and so on, there always goes up a certain semi-visible steam, while in the
and swimming on, in one solid, but still crescentic centre.  Crowding all sail
and the whale's gastric juices.  But this objection likewise falls to the
and the whale; and vice versa; certainly they are very similar.  If I claim
and those that by their enormous girth seemed shortly to become mothers.  The
and we'd drink round it!  Yea, verily, hearts alive, we'd brew choice punch
and which, when additional game is at hand, are inserted upright into the
and with delighted nostrils the fresh cinnamon was snuffed in the air, yet
and yet their doubting those traditions did not make those traditions one
another passage up the Persian Gulf and Red Sea, such a supposition would
any amazement at the strangely gallied whales before us, for there is no folly
any creature breathing is only a function indispensable to vitality, inasmuch
any profound being that had anything to say to this
any way; yet the peculiar horror with which he seemed to inspire the rest of
any whale to swim in.  Besides, this idea of Jonah's weathering the Cape of
appearance of a baby's ears newly arrived from foreign parts.  Line!  line!
architects, these Vedas were lying at the bottom of the waters; so Vishnoo
ardor of youth declines; as years and dumps increase; as reflection lends
are hostile; that oil is a sliding thing, and that the object in view is to
are told, will he finally go down to stay out his full term below.  Remark,
as it seemed, had broken away from the boat, carrying along with him half of
as it withdraws from the air a certain element, which being subsequently
as many Sperm Whales had been captured off the western coast of Java, in the
as must have been seen, even at the present day, small detached bands are
as token of prior possession, should the boats of any other ship draw near.
as, after deep sounding, he floats up again, and shows the slackened curling
assailant.  Dissect him how I may, then, I but go skin deep; I know him not,
astern, and likewise to secure one which Flask had killed and waifed.  The
atheistical devils were infernally cheering him on with their curses; --when
awhile, still in tantalizing vicinity to young Lothario, like pious Solomon
backs.  Owing to the density of the crowd of reposing whales, more
balls.  The more I consider this mighty tail, the more do I deplore my
bands are known as schools.  They generally are of two sorts; those composed
be in sight, the fishermen will seldom give chase to one of these Grand
be in, its flexions are invariably marked by exceeding grace.  Therein no
be seen.  But I cannot completely make out his back parts; and hint what he
be, and yet, that down to this blessed minute (fifteen and a quarter
became incarnate in a whale, and sounding down in him to the uttermost
becharmed panic which it was impossible not to marvel at.  Like household dogs
before the wind, which for centuries past, by night and by day, have passed
being looped, it can in a moment be fastened to a harpoon.  It is chiefly
being, inasmuch as it is an undisputed fact that he is never found on
best contradictory authorities, this Grecian story of Hercules and the whale
between the islands of Sumatra and Java, freighted with the costliest cargoes
between the outside layers.  This triune structure, as much as anything else,
between this Ottoman and his concubines is striking; because, while he is
between two whales into the innermost heart of the shoal, as if from some
blending atmosphere of bluish haze, showed like the thousand cheerful chimneys
blood in a man could be aerated with one breath, he might then seal up his
blow from the elephant's trunk were as the playful tap of a fan, compared with
boat, and one morning not long after the German ship Jungfrau disappeared,
boats.  But no sooner did the herd, by some presumed wonderful instinct of
both bows, at the distance of some two or three miles, and forming a great
bottom as the seat slid from under him.  On both sides the sea came in at the
bottom.  Nor is it to be doubted that as such a procedure can do no harm, it
bottomless profundities the gigantic tail seems spasmodically snatching at the
bound to China from the west, emerge into the China seas.  Those narrow straits
branches, like the cleft drooping boughs of a willow, the single
breast, as if leading two different lives at the time; and while yet drawing
breath, or so much as in any way inhaling a particle of air; for, remember,
breathe he must, or die he will.  But the Sperm Whale only breathes about one
breathe through his mouth, for, in his ordinary attitude, the Sperm Whale's
breaths you alarm him, so that he sounds, he will be always dodging up again
bright steel spans the foaming distance, and quivers in the life spot of the
broad waters beyond; then, the harpooneers seemed more to grieve that the
broken teeth, scolloped fins; and in some instances, wrenched and dislocated
brought into contact with the blood imparts to the blood its vivifying
burnt without any oil.
but doubts or denials, few along with them, have intuitions.  Doubts of all
but not old; who, upon any alarm, evinces his gallantry by falling in the
by the subtle moisture thrown off by the whale in his more quiet moods.  Yes,
called by the fishermen a school, so is the lord and master of that school
calves had been purposely locked up in this innermost fold; and as if the
canal of the Sperm Whale, chiefly intended as it is for the conveyance of air,
caravan, Moby Dick himself might not temporarily be swimming, like the
cases, the boats at once separated, each making for some one lone whale on
cause of its stopping; or, possibly, being so young, unsophisticated, and
cause the most terrible duels among their rival admirers; just so with the
central body of it is hidden in the snowy sparkling mist enveloping it; and
central expanse the sea presented that smooth satin-like surface, called a
centuries back, thousands of hunters should have been close by the fountain
character, however admirably satirical, that after going to school himself,
chase, this natural line, with the maternal end loose, becomes entangled
chased, and in the after one the bloodthirsty pirates chasing him; some
chin.  Next moment with a rapid, nameless impulse, in a superb lofty arch the
christened the Shark, the Gull, the Eagle.  Nor have there been wanting
churning through the water, violently flailing with his flexible tail, and
circles, and inclusive of the spaces between the various pods in any one of
circumnavigating Pequod would sweep almost all the known Sperm Whale cruising
circumstances, is in no wise unprecedented; and indeed is almost always more
close ranks and battalions, so that their spouts all looked like flashing
clumped together at last in one dense body, they then renewed their onward
common language, the word is now completely obsolete.  When the polite
commotion.  And still in the distracted distance we beheld the tumults of the
communicates with the spouting canal; but it cannot be proved that this is
complicated channels and straits, knowing not at what moment it may be
conclusion I am impelled, by considerations touching the great inherent
consternations and affrights, did these inscrutable creatures at the centre
contingency provided for in suckling by two teats, curiously situated, one
contracting orbits the whales in the more central circles began to swim in
cool season there, and so evade the other excessive temperature of the year.
corpse of Goethe, he was overwhelmed with the massive chest of the man, that
country-schoolmaster that famous Frenchman was in his younger days, and what
covenant for mutual assistance and protection.  To this aggregation of the
crescent in our van, we beheld another in our rear.  It seemed formed of
cried Queequeg, looking over the gunwale; him fast!  him fast! --Who line
cried Starbuck.  Look-e here, said Queequeg pointing down.  As when the
cripple the graceful flexion of its motions; where infantileness of ease
cross each other's grain at right angles; a line of considerable length is
crossed by random whales, all violently making for one centre.  This lucky
crossing the waterless desert carries a surplus supply of drink for future use
cruisers, the audacity of these corsairs has of late been somewhat repressed;
cruising; therefore, as the Pequod gained more and more upon Java Head, the
cutting-spade, to which is attached a rope for hauling it back again.  A
daintiness of the elephant's trunk.  This delicacy is chiefly evinced in the
darting to and fro across the circles, was nothing to what at last met our
dashing among the revolving circles like the lone mounted desperado
day old, might have measured some fourteen feet in length, and some six feet
deep, as with so many sprinkling or mistifying pots; and that for some
defined than in the crescentic borders of these flukes.  At its utmost
deliberate coolness and equanimity in the direst emergencies, was specially
delirious throb.  As, blind and deaf, the whale plunged forward, as if by sheer
depths, rescued the sacred volumes.  Was not this Vishnoo a whaleman, then?
descending for good?  How obvious is it, too, that this necessity for the
desert; even then, the whale always carries a small basin of water on his
detached companies, as in former times, are now frequently met with in
detached white vapors, rising and falling something like the spouts of the
devoutly believe in the historical story of Jonah.  And some three centuries
devoutly worshipping among his thousand concubines.  Granting other whales to
dignity and sublimity of the Sperm Whale; I account him no common, shallow
diligently seeking to insure a crop of hair from the craft's bald keel.  He
disbands the harem, and grown to an exemplary, sulky old soul, goes about
does he want of them?  No roses, no violets, no Cologne-water in the sea.
domineering fortresses which guard the entrances to the Mediterranean, the
down as one of the whaleman's self-derived savageries.  Much the same is it
dozen yards round the waist.  Nevertheless, it cannot be denied, that upon the
draw confidentially close to one of the ladies, with what prodigious fury the
dromedary that of a sudden rose bodily to the surface, and for an instant
dropping and dropping the pirates astern, the Pequod at last shot by the
drugg comes into requisition.  Our boat was furnished with three of them.
drugged-harpoons, were it not that as we advanced into the herd, our whale's
dubious: for though according to the Greek mythologies, that antique
duty was now altogether dispensed with.  They chiefly attended to the shouting
each young Leviathan from his amorous errors.  Now, as the harem of whales is
each, swiftly going round and round, like multiplied spans of horses in a
easily have over-arched the middle ones, and so have gone round on their
edging away from that, whose colossal flukes were suspended overhead, while
elephant is preposterous, inasmuch as in that particular the elephant
elephant, I then testified of the whale, pronouncing him the most devout of
elephant, so far as some aspects of the tail of the one and the trunk of the
embodiment of adoration of the gods was never beheld, even in Persia, the
end; and not only that, but a herd of remorseless wild pirates and inhuman
endangered prophet swam to, and so was saved from a watery doom.  Poor
endeavor we at last shot into a temporary
enough in the good Bishop.  For truly, the Right Whale's mouth would
enters upon the impotent, repentant, admonitory stage of life, forswears,
equality, much less the creatures to which they respectively belong.  For as
escape to another vessel near by, some vessel with a whale for a figure-head;
escape was at present afforded us.  We must watch for a breach in the living
especially if it descend to its mark, the stroke is then simply irresistible.
esteem, the whales salute more hominum.
even as a man who rides a horse is called a horseman?  Perseus, St.  George,
even in the best cruising grounds, you may now sometimes sail for weeks and
ever set apart and sanctified the whale.  When Brahma, or the God of Gods,
every day encountered; while you may, then, you must kill all you can.  And
every way innocent and inexperienced; however it may have been, these
evinced his foolish pride of reason --a thing still more reprehensible in
evinced the activity of the other boats, still engaged in drugging the whales
excessive dismay.  But this occasional timidity is characteristic of almost
exercises boasts nothing like it.  It is only indispensable with an inveterate
expansion in the full grown whale, the tail will considerably exceed twenty
extensive herd, so remarkable, occasionally, are these mystic gestures,
extensive herds, sometimes embracing so great a multitude, that it would
eyes.  It is sometimes the custom when fast to a whale more than commonly
fact, placed before the strict and piercing truth, this whole story will
fairy's arm can transcend it.  Five great motions are peculiar to it.  First,
fare like that fish, flesh, and fowl idol of the Philistines, Dagon by name;
fashionables, they are for ever on the move in leisurely search of variety.
fathoms beneath the sunlight.  Not so much thy skill, then, O hunter, as the
feeding season, having just returned, perhaps, from spending the summer in
feet across.  The entire member seems a dense webbed bed of welded
female whales are characteristically timid, the young males, or
few are captured having the deep scars of these encounters, --furrowed heads,
fibres and filaments, which passing on either side the loins and running down
fiercely demanding tribute at the point of their spears.  Though by the
fleetness.  Such unintermitted strainings upon the planted iron must sooner or
flight with augmented fleetness.  Further pursuit was useless; but the boats
floating body of a dead whale, both to mark its place on the sea, and also
floating posture of the leviathan the flukes lie considerably below the level
flood had come; they would only answer -- Well, boys, here's the ark!  Now,
flukes close by.  Riotous and disordered as the universal commotion now was,
for another outlet.  After many similar hair-breadth escapes, we at last
for his periodical visits to the upper world.  But he cannot in any degree
for questioning the Hebrew story was this: --He had one of those quaint
for the convenience of ships and whales; conspicuous among which are the
for the purpose of discharging water through the spiracle.  Because the
for the supremacy like elks that warringly interweave their antlers.  Not a
forty feet ahead.  Handling the long lance lightly, glancing twice or thrice
forward-slanting spout of the Sperm Whale presents a thick curled bush of
freely and fearlessly indulge in all peaceful concernments; yea, serenely
fright.  First, the whales forming the margin of our lake began to crowd a
from afar; then the lake itself began faintly to heave and swell; the
from his head by the air-eddy made by the sudden tossing of a pair of broad
from the Shaster, which gives us the dread Vishnoo, one of the three persons
from the circumference of commotion, the direful disorders seemed waning.  So
gave account of an immense body or herd of Sperm Whales, and there was also
general body, full of strangeness, and unaccountable to his most experienced
generally the most serious result.  These submerged side blows are so often
giving battle to Moby Dick, in the sea he was most known to frequent; and at
grasp, leaving the rest unobstructed.  Then holding the lance full before
great gods themselves.  That wondrous oriental story is now to be rehearsed
great headland from Bartholomew Diaz, its reputed discoverer, and so make
great necessities that strike the victory to thee!  In man, breathing is
great river Hudson breaks up in Spring, the entire host of whales came
greatest necessity for so doing would seem to be, when in feeding he
ground, because a German exegetist supposes that Jonah must have taken refuge
grounds of the world, previous to descending upon the Line in the Pacific;
growth, are not more than one third of the bulk of an average-sized male.
had so victoriously gained upon the Malays.  But still driving on in the wake
happen, your skin will feverishly smart, from the acridness of the thing so
harmony, but it often bestows it; and in everything imposingly beautiful,
harpoon as compared with the lance, which in effect become serious drawbacks.
harpoon, and also of a lighter material--pine.  It is furnished with a small
have entered the straits, these rascally Asiatics were now in hot pursuit, to
have ever had to do with a whale like their great patron), let them never eye
have sighted one grain of soil; her crew having seen no man but floating
he has no gills.  How is this?  Between his ribs and on each side of his spine
he is supplied with a remarkable involved Cretan labyrinth of vermicelli-like
he may be deemed a sort of involuntary whaleman; at any rate the whale caught
he should then go abroad inculcating not what he learned there, but the folly
head, as under a blazing sun you will sometimes see a cavity in a rock filled
head.  The invariable moisture of my hair, while plunged in deep thought,
heard it said, and I do not much doubt it, that if the jet is fairly spouted
heavenly ray.  And for this I thank God; for all have doubts; many deny;
held, little doubt had they, that chased through these Straits of Sunda,
helter-skelter for the outlets, crowding, trampling, jamming, and
her solemn pauses; in short, as a general lassitude overtakes the sated Turk;
here, that though the harpoon may be pitchpoled in the same way with the
highest heaven.  So in dreams, have I seen majestic Satan thrusting forth his
him very closely, and time him with your watch, you will find that when
him!  Who struck?  Two whale; one big, one little!  What ails ye, man?
him, if he did not the whale.  I claim him for one of our clan.  But, by the
him, seeing that he had but little learning except what he had picked up from
himself in his advancing years, is true of all aged Sperm Whales.  Almost
himself.  So Ahab.  Mark this, too, in the whaler.  While other hulls are
his full hour and more (when at the bottom) without drawing a single
his nose.  But then again, what has the whale to say?  Seldom have I known
his own fan-like extremity.  All whaleboats carry certain curious contrivances,
his power in his play.  The broad palms of his tail are flirted high into the
his spiracle alone; and this is on the top of his head.  If I say, that in
his tail; for I have heard of yet another elephant, that when wounded in
his waistband's middle, he levels it at the whale; when, covering him with
hold.  She is ballasted with utilities; not altogether with unusable pig-lead
home of the fire worshippers.  As Ptolemy Philopater testified of the African
hook or by net could this vast leviathan be caught, when sailing a thousand
horseman on a height.  As marching armies approaching an unfriendly defile in
hovered, without finally disappearing.  Levelling his glass at this sight,
how can you certainly tell whether any water falls from it, when, always,
however, that in different individuals these rates are different; but in any
human form, mark what robustness is there.  And whatever they may reveal of
hunter's lance, the mother's pouring milk and blood rivallingly discolor
hypothesize, even if we cannot prove and establish.  My hypothesis is this:
if you cannot kill them all at once, you must wing them, so that they can be
immediately surrounding the embayed axis of the herd, no possible chance of
imparts power to the tail.  To the student of old Roman walls, the middle
impossible, he swam so fast and furious.  What then remained?  Of all the
in a prodigious commotion, the water cascading all around him.  And if at
in general breathe the air which at all times is combined with the element in
in girth.  He was a little frisky; though as yet his body seemed scarce yet
in his conflicts with man, he chiefly and contemptuously uses his tail.  In
in its four supplementary stomachs.  The anatomical fact of this labyrinth
in repeated instances have one after the other hurled entire boats with all
in the Fishery, --the more whales the less fish.  Of all the drugged whales
in the Pacific, prefers to drink before the brackish fluid, but yesterday
in the deep.  And thus, though surrounded by circle upon circle of
in the floating body of a dead whale -- even as the French soldiers in the
in the godhead of the Hindoos; gives us this divine Vishnoo himself for our
in the spread of his spout-hole there, and from that live punch-bowl quaff
inability to express it.  At times there are gestures in it, which, though
incessantly going on --one breath only serving for two or three pulsations; so
inclusive of the occasional wide intervals between the revolving outer
incommunicable contemplations, and that vapor --as you will sometimes see it
incompatible with the sacred legend and the ancientest draughts of the scene,
indispensable to Vishnoo before beginning the creation, and which therefore
inland there i still bathe me in eternal mildness of joy.  Meanwhile, as we
instant tore it out and carried it away, dropping the oarsman in the boat's
insult him by saying, that when he so strangely rumbles, he talks through
into the flukes, insensibly blend with them, and largely contribute to their
into two broad, firm, flat palms or flukes, gradually shoaling away to less
into your eyes, it will blind you.  The wisest thing the investigator can do
involve the complete circumnavigation of all Africa in three days, not to
irradiate vapor.  And so, through all the thick mists of the dim doubts in my
irregular circles, and aimlessly swimming hither and thither, by their short
irresolution, which, when the fishermen perceive it in the whale, they say he
is considered to be derived from the still more ancient Hebrew story of Jonah
is gallied.  The compact martial columns in which they had been hitherto
is indisputable; and that the supposition founded upon it is reasonable and
is only inflicted by the recoil.  If it be made in the unobstructed air,
is repeated, the spear returning to its master like a greyhound held in
is, nevertheless, that the Sperm Whale has no proper olfactories.  But what
it remain unwarranted by the event.  Towards noon whales were raised; but so
it should still remain a problem, whether these spoutings are, after all,
it soon resolved itself into what seemed a systematic movement; for having
it, he steadily depresses the butt-end in his hand, thereby elevating the
it, without being able to drag the firm thing from its place.  But thoughts
it.
it; but if it comes sideways through the opposing water, then partly owing
kitten-like, he plays on the ocean as if it were a hearth.  But still you see
knows how many millions of ages before --the great whales should have been
lake --evinced a wondrous fearlessness and confidence, or else a still
lake, as I have hinted, was to a considerable depth exceedingly transparent;
lance, yet it is seldom done; and when done, is still less frequently
lance; but fearful of the consequences, for the time refrained from darting
landsman first hears it from the gaunt Nantucketer, he is apt to set it
later inevitably extract it.  It became imperative to lance the flying whale,
layer will furnish a curious parallel to the thin course of tiles always
leading wind, was herself in hot chase; how very kind of these tawny
leaping motion to the monster when furiously swimming.  His side-fins only
learned exegetists who have opined that the whale mentioned in the book of
leaving a narrow Dardanelles between their long lengths.  But by desperate
leviathans before us; when, of a sudden, the voice of Tashtego was heard,
like these troubled very few of the reckless crew; and when, after steadily
line buoyantly rising and spiralling towards the air; so now, Starbuck saw
lines of stacked bayonets, moved on with redoubled velocity.  Stripped to our
lion-maned buffaloes of the West have fled before a solitary horseman.
little, and tumble against each other, as if lifted by half spent billows
loaded down with alien stuff, to be transferred to foreign wharves; the
locked in and crushed.  But not a bit daunted, Queequeg steered us manfully;
lodged in the spout-hole fissure, which is countersunk into the summit of the
long coils of the umbilical cord of Madame Leviathan, by which the young cub
look-outs were repeatedly hailed, and admonished to keep wide awake.  But
lord.  Gently he insinuates his vast bulk among them again and revels there
loudly cheering from the heads of their yet suspended boats.  If the wind only
loudly directing attention to something in our wake.  Corresponding to the
luxurious Ottoman, swimming about over the watery world, surroundingly
maiming his gigantic tail-tendon.  It is done by darting a short-handled
make the boat slide bravely.  Queequeg believed strongly in anointing his
make up for their over-cautious delay.  But when the swift Pequod, with a fresh
makes neither believer nor infidel, but makes a man who regards them both
males, or bulls, as they are familiarly designated.  In cavalier attendance
man; it might do well with strawberries.  When overflowing with mutual
manner from the tails of all other sea creatures.  It never wriggles.  In man
mast-head of my ship during a sunrise that crimsoned sky and sea, I once saw
maternal reticule; where, tail to head, and all ready for the final spring,
may possibly be of no contemptible advantage; considering that oil and water
men.  Though many of the whales, as has been said, were in violent motion,
mentioned, offer a strong contrast to the harem schools.  For while those
mere riding-whips and rowels to her, that they were.  As with glass under arm,
might be discovered from our low boat that seemed playing up almost from the
might be named, my Lord Whale has no taste for the nursery, however much for
might have carried him round by the way of the Cape of Good Hope.  But not to
might; so that in the tail the confluent measureless force of the whole
mind, divine intuitions now and then shoot, enkindling my fog with a
minutes past one o'clock P. M.  of this sixteenth day of December, A. D.
miracle.  And so it was.  Besides, to this day, the highly enlightened Turks
mixed with water, then I opine we should be furnished with the reason why his
modern history a liar.  But all these foolish arguments of old Sag-Harbor only
moment vibrating in concert with peaked flukes.  As it seemed to me at the
monster, to behold him solemnly sailing through a calm tropical sea; his
months together, without being greeted by a single spout; and then be
more, his windpipe has no connexion with his mouth.  No, he breathes through
mortal nourishment, be still spiritually feasting upon some unearthly
most other fish, breeds indifferently at all seasons; after a gestation
most southerly point of all Asia.  In a continuous line from that peninsula
mountain torrent we had slid into a serene valley lake.  Here the storms in the
mountain.  Instantly Starbuck and Queequeg changed places; Starbuck taking
mouth is buried at least eight feet beneath the surface; and what is still
mouths.  but supposing the invader of domestic bliss to betake himself away at
much like a gas-pipe laid down in a city on one side of a street.  But the
multitude, must have contained at least two or three square miles.  At any
must have contained something in the shape of practical hints to young
must have read the memoirs of Vidocq, and informed himself what sort of a
must run wine to-day!  Would now, it were old Orleans whiskey, or old Ohio,
near him but Nature herself; and her he takes to wife in the wilderness of
near vicinity of the straits of Sunda; indeed, as most of the ground,
neared them; and the wind now dying away, word was passed to spring to the
nevertheless, there are not wanting some points of curious similitude; among
no means renounce their claim to more solid tribute.  Time out of mind the
none?
northwards, over waters known to be frequented here and there by the Sperm
nosegays to damsels, and then caressed their zones.  On more accounts than
nostrils and not fetch another for a considerable time.  That is to say, he
not a single jet was descried.  Almost renouncing all thought of falling in
not the knights of that honorable company (none of whom, I venture to say,
notorious Lothario out
now sheering off from this monster directly across our route in advance; now
now?  in this zoned quest, does Ahab touch no land?  does his crew drink air?
obscured from us.  But at length we perceived that by one of the unimaginable
obsequious homage of lowered top-sails from the endless procession of ships
obstinacy of that leviathan in having his spoutings out, as the fishermen
occasionally observed, embracing from twenty to fifty individuals each.  Such
oceans, the Sperm Whales, instead of almost invariably sailing in small
of Sumatra, have sallied out upon the vessels sailing through the straits,
of Sunda divide Sumatra from Java; and standing midway in that vast rampart
of at least fifty square feet.  The compact round body of its root expands
of domestic bliss; though do what the Bashaw will, he cannot keep the most
of his back, they are then completely out of sight beneath the surface; but
of his bed; for, alas!  all fish bed in common.  As ashore, the ladies often
of islands, buttressed by that bold green promontory, known to seamen as
of it.  His title, schoolmaster, would very naturally
of locks (that open and shut) for the downward retention of air or the
of my being, do I myself still for ever centrally disport in mute calm; and
of not a few of their number.  And who could tell whether, in that congregated
of some dense metropolis, descried of a balmy autumnal morning, by some
of the Mediterranean coast.  How is that?  But was there no other way for the
of the beasts of the earth which is not infinitely outdone by the madness of
of the east.  But while they freely waive a ceremonial like this, they do by
of the fishery.  For as the swift monster drags you deeper and deeper into
of the prophet, was something obscurely in reference to his incarcerated body
of the watery defile in which the ship was then sailing, and bethought him
of the whale, watching these sprinklings and spoutings --that all this should
of the whales, at length they seemed abating their speed; gradually the ship
of vapory spouts, individually curling up into the air, and beheld through a
often hailed the morning with their trunks uplifted in the profoundest
old Monongahela!  Then, Tashtego, lad, I'd have ye hold a canakin to the jet,
old times, we find the headwaters of our fraternity in nothing short of the
old-fashioned Bibles, embellished with curious, unscientific plates; one of
on each side of the anus; but the breasts themselves extend upwards from
on the frontier of the host; or possibly carrying on the war within the first
once raise its head above the surface.  But owing to his marked internal
one they are alike.  Now, why should the whale thus insist upon having his
one, a pity it is that the whale does not possess this prehensile virtue in
only live by inhaling the disengaged air in the open atmosphere.  Wherefore
only one was captured.  The rest contrived to escape for the time, but only
only the maternal help.  For like certain other omnivorous roving lovers that
only true with respect to a species of the Leviathan (the Right Whale, and
opening; then giving way rapidly, and at the same time earnestly watching
or fish, wriggling is a sign of inferiority.  To the whale, his tail is the
or less anticipated; yet does it present one of the more perilous vicissitudes
or twelve feet in length; the staff is much slighter than that of the
or unspeakable
other are concerned, should not tend to place those two opposite organs on an
others, form a vast mole, or rampart, lengthwise connecting Asia with
our order.  Our grand master is still to be named; for like royal kings of
our way whatever whales he could reach by short darts, for there was no time
out from the orthodox pagans of their times, equally doubted the story of
outer concentric circles, and saw successive pods of whales, eight or ten in
over seem bursting from the marble in the carved Hercules, and its charm
overlap, then sideways recede from each other like wings, leaving a wide
palms of his hands fell off from him, and only the stump or fishy part of him
paralysed as it were, helplessly floated like water-logged dismantled ships on
part of the business.  Out of the way, Commodore!  cried one, to a great
passage in their rear, and once more expand in comparative security upon the
peering into it, and putting his face in it.  You cannot go with your pitcher
perhaps the grandest sight to be seen in all animated nature.  Out of the
periodical dissolutions, he gave birth to Vishnoo, to preside over the work;
philanthropists to assist in speeding her on to her own chosen pursuit, --
phrase it.  This is what I mean.  If unmolested, upon rising to the surface,
pictures, in which his idea has been most successfully embodied; these
pictures, so destitute as they are of all brawniness, hint nothing of any
piratical proas of the Malays, lurking among the low shaded coves and islets
pitchpoling comes into play.  Look now at Stubb; a man who from his humorous,
plain things the knottiest of all.  And as for this whale spout, you might
plain; even so did this vast fleet of whales now seem hurrying forward
plebeianised --so to speak --in the New World.
point till the weapon stands fairly balanced upon his palm, fifteen feet in
ponderous and profound.  And I am convinced that from the heads of all
ponderous profound beings, such as Plato, Pyrrho, the Devil, Jupiter, Dante,
power, but the mere negative, feminine one of submission and endurance,
powerful and alert, to seek to hamstring him, as it were, by sundering or
precipitancy; a disordered flight, as of Cleopatra's barges from Actium.
precisely the case with the whale, who systematically lives, by intervals,
prehensile power, I should straightway bethink me of Darmonodes' elephant
principle, I do not think I shall err; though I may possibly use some
qualified to excel in pitchpoling.  Look at him; he stands upright in the
question returns whether this gas-pipe is also a water-pipe; in other words,
rafted off in casks, from the Peruvian or Indian streams.  Hence it is, that,
raises our conceit of the mighty, misty
rapidly and steadily swimming, were now broken up in one measureless rout;
rate --though indeed such a test at such a time might be deceptive --spoutings
really water, or nothing but vapor --this is surely a noteworthy thing.  Let
rear and covering the flight of his ladies.  In truth, this gentleman is a
reason for his want of faith.  It was this, if I remember right: Jonah was
reasoning on the subject?  Speak out!  You have seen him spout; then declare
received in the fishery, that they are accounted mere child's play.  Some one
recovered from that irksome position it had so lately occupied in the
remained.  Thus, then, one of our own noble stamp, even a whaleman, is the
reminiscence; --even so did the young of these whales seem looking up towards
remorselessly dashing each other to death.  Best, therefore, withhold
repeated bloody chastisements they have received at the hands of European
retreated, but collectively remained in one place.  As is customary in those
revelled in dalliance and delight.  But even so, amid the tornadoed Atlantic
rim of the horizon.  I mention this circumstance, because, as if the cows and
ring; and so closely shoulder to shoulder, that a Titanic circus-rider might
roaring glens between the outermost whales, were heard but not felt.  In this
rope called a warp, of considerable length, by which it can be hauled back to
round you than you can possibly chase at one time.  But sperm whales are not
roundabout, was generally recognised by the fishermen as an excellent spot for
running away with us like light, steered straight for the heart of the herd.
running whale; its grand fact and feature is the wonderful distance to which
saith the Shaster, resolved to recreate the world after one of its
salvation was cheaply purchased by the loss of Queequeg's hat, who, while
say, the skin peeled off from his cheek and arm.  Wherefore, among whalemen,
scenes, it is all in all what mood you are in; if in the Dantean, the devils
sea in a calm, with his elevated hump sun-dried as a dromedary's in the
sea, he carries a surplus stock of vitality in him, just as the camel
sea-horse; bearing all this in mind, it will not appear altogether
sea; and if he feel but a sailor's whisker, woe to that sailor, whiskers and
seamen like themselves.  So that did you carry them the news that another
seas, you find him unbent from the vast corpulence of his dignity, and
second thoughts, the Right Whale is toothless.  Another reason which
secrets.  The schools composing none but young and vigorous males, previously
seem derived from the name bestowed upon the harem itself, but some have
seemed as a Roman triumphal arch.  When Angelo paints even God the Father in
seemed divulged to us in this enchanted pond.  We saw young Leviathan amours
seemed going mad with consternation.  In all directions expanding in vast
seemed still tethered to its dam.  Not seldom in the rapid vicissitudes of the
seemed to be working in obedience to some particular presentiment.  Nor did
seems an additional argument for the above supposition.  And how nobly it
semicircle, embracing one half of the level horizon, a continuous chain of
sense of smell seems obliterated in him; for the only thing about him that at
serve to steer by.  Second: It is a little significant, that while one sperm
seventh or Sunday of his time.  It has been said that the whale only breathes
seventy times, that is, respires seventy breaths; then whenever he rises
ship mobbed by ice-isles in a tempest, and striving to steer through their
shirts and drawers, we sprang to the white-ash,
should be enrolled in the most noble order of St.  George.  And therefore, let
sight.  floating on their sides, the mothers also seemed quietly eyeing us.
sights are seen, my lord whale keeps a wary eye on his interesting family.
silence.  The chance comparison in this chapter, between the whale and the
sinews; but cut into it, and you find that three distinct strata compose it:
singular magnificence saluted us.  But here be it premised, that owing to the
skilful leash.  The agonized whale goes into his flurry; the tow-line is
slackened, and the pitchpoler dropping astern, folds his hands, and mutely
sleek, produced
slight contact with the outer, vapory shreds of the jet, which will often
slowness moves his immense flukes from side to side upon the surface of the
small tame cows and calves; the women and children of this routed host.  Now,
smaller whales --now and then visiting our becalmed boat from the margin of the
sole means of propulsion.  Scroll-wise coiled forwards beneath the body, and
some Nantucketers rather distrust this historical story of Jonah and the
some vast walled empire: and considering the inexhaustible wealth of spices,
soon as the ship sailed down to them, they turned and fled with swift
soundings, or near shores; all other whales sometimes are.  He is both
speak of the Tigris waters, near the site of Nineveh, being too shallow for
speak of the passage through the whole length of the Mediterranean, and
spigot out of him!  cries Stubb. 'Tis July's immortal Fourth; all fountains
spout, whether with some scientific object in view, or otherwise, I cannot
spouting all over the sea, and sprinkling and mistifying the gardens of the
spoutings out, unless it be to replenish his reservoir of air, ere
squares of wood of equal size are stoutly clenched together, so that they
staggeringly running off, fettered by the enormous sidelong resistance of the
standing in the bows to prick the fugitive whales, had his hat taken clean
stands in much the same respect to the whale that a dog does to the elephant;
stay so!  Spring, men -- pull, men; never mind their backs --scrape them!
still lingered in their wake to pick up what drugged whales might be dropped
stopped the leaks for the time.  It had been next to impossible to dart these
straight perpendicular
straits of Sunda and Malacca.  By the straits of Sunda, chiefly, vessels
stranger world met our eyes as we gazed over the side.  For, suspended in
stream.
strength has much to do with the magic.  Take away the tied tendons that all
stretch the long islands of Sumatra, Java, Bally, and Timor; which, with many
stricken whale, that from the tub has reeled out hundreds of fathoms of rope;
striking at a boat, he swiftly curves away his flukes from it, and the blow
structure which gives him regular lungs, like a human being's, the whale can
studded oriental archipelagoes.  This rampart is pierced by several sally-ports
submarine bridal-chambers and nurseries vanished; in more and more
subtlest secrets of the seas
subtleties, to which the veteran whaleman is so often forced, none exceed
successful, on account of the greater weight and inferior length of the
such fancy as the above seemed his.  And when he glanced upon the green walls
such great bodies are at times encountered, yet,
such times you should think that you really perceived drops of moisture in
suddenly saluted by what sometimes seems thousands on thousands.  Broad on
sun has raced within his fiery ring, and needs no sustenance but what's in
superfluous scientific words.  Assume it, and it follows that if all the
surface of his head, and a little to one side; this curious canal is very
surface, and there he cannot spout even if he would.  Besides, if you regard
surmised that the man who first thus entitled this sort of Ottoman whale,
swallowed by the whale in the Mediterranean Sea, and after three days he was
swallowed down and thrown up by a whale; still, whether that strictly makes a
swift whales had been gaining upon the ship, than to rejoice that the ship
swiftly glided into what had just been one of the outer circles, but now
sword, in all its
symbols; that the whale, indeed, by these methods intelligently conversed
teachings.  Such is the subtle elasticity of the organ I treat of, that
technically known as the schoolmaster.  It is therefore not in strict
temporarily lodged in some part of his mouth.  And this seems reasonable
than an inch in thickness.  At the crotch or junction, these flukes slightly
that I have heard hunters who have declared them akin to Free-Mason signs and
that fine manoeuvre with the lance called pitchpoling.  Small sword, or broad
that he towed; he had also run away with the cutting-spade in him; and while
that oriental sea are enriched, it seems a significant provision of nature,
that so frequented the flower-market, and with low salutations presented
that such treasures, by the very formation of the land, should at least bear
that the spout is nothing but mist.  And besides other reasons, to this
that through that gate lay the route to his vengeance, and beheld, how that
that whatever other business he has to attend to, waking or sleeping,
that when at last the jerking harpoon drew out, and the towing whale sideways
that.  When by chance these precious parts in a nursing whale are cut by the
the Cape of Good Hope was advanced as a signal magnification of the general
the Northern seas, and so cheating summer of all unpleasant weariness and
the Pequod pressed after them; the harpooneers handling their weapons, and
the Sperm Whale will continue there for a period of time exactly uniform with
the Sperm Whale, become notified of the three keels that were after them,
the air.  He minds you somewhat of a juggler, balancing a long staff on his
the animal ridden by St.  George might have been only a large seal, or
the appearance, however ineffectual, of being guarded from the all-grasping
the axles of carriages are anointed; and for much the same purpose, some
the bower; and so, being a great traveller, he leaves his anonymous babies
the coils of the harpoon-line round his tail, the cutting-spade itself had
the crazed creatures to and fro rushing about us; our beset boat was like a
the customary cheering cry was heard from aloft, and ere long a spectacle of
the demigod then, why not the prophet?
the divine love in the Son, the soft, curled, hermaphroditical Italian
the fight, curved round his trunk and extracted the dart.  Fourth: Stealing
the first rush of the harem's lord, then is it very diverting to watch that
the frantic shoal, you bid adieu to circumspect life and only exist in a
the free end of the rope attached to that weapon, had permanently caught in
the hand after darting.  But before going further, it is important to mention
the harpoon line; and in the extraordinary agony of the wound, he was now
the herd, was owing to a cause which at first the intervening distance
the historical story of Jonah and the whale in the preceding chapter.  Now
the light wreath of vapor from the spiracle at his other extremity, you would
the living stuff!  Again and again to such gamesome talk, the dexterous dart
the long lance is accurately darted from a violently rocking, jerking boat,
the measureless crush and crash of the sperm whale's ponderous flukes, which
the mightiest elephant is but a terrier to Leviathan, so, compared with
the mountains, accelerate their march, all eagerness to place that perilous
the necessity
the ordinary periods of respiration.  But why pester one with all this
the outskirts of the shoal.  In about three minutes' time, Queequeg's harpoon
the palms of his flukes, still freshly retained the plaited crumpled
the pasture by three fierce wolves, they could not possibly have evinced such
the sea for rods.  The milk is very sweet and rich; it has been tasted by
the sea.  Had these leviathans been but a flock of simple sheep, pursued over
the soft eye of the antelope, and the lovely plumage of the bird that never
the spout is deemed poisonous; they try to evade it.  Another thing; I have
the spout, how do you know that they are not merely condensed from its vapor;
the stern.  Oars!  Oars!  he intensely whispered, seizing the helm -- gripe
the sun and the sea.  I say it only shows his foolish, impious pride, and
the tail; for in this respect there is a delicacy in it only equalled by the
the unborn whale lies bent like a Tartar's bow.  The delicate side-fins, and
the varieties of that order), concerning which the fishermen have this saying,
the vast host would only deploy into the Oriental seas to witness the capture
the whaleman's can head off like that?
their most appalling beauty from it.  Real strength never impairs beauty or
their oars and crews into the air, very much as an Indian juggler tosses his
their unctuousness is small.  As for the sons and the daughters they beget,
them.  But the sight of the enraged drugged whales now and then blindly
then attached to the middle of this block, and the other end of the line
then given the probable cause inducing those vast aggregations.  Now, though
then rapidly sprung backwards, it is this which gives that singular darting,
then, it seems to me, is to let this deadly spout alone.  Still, we can
there, a curious involved worming and undulation in the atmosphere over my
these is the spout.  It is well known that the elephant will often draw up
they came snuffling round us, right up to our gunwales, and touching them;
they were now at last under the influence of that strange perplexity of inert
they would well grace the hand of man, remain wholly inexplicable.  In an
thick spoutings, they plainly betrayed their distraction of panic.  This
thickening clusters.  Yes, the long calm was departing.  A low advancing hum
things earthly, and intuitions of some things heavenly; this combination
think that that was the smoke from the touch-hole.  Fifth: As in the ordinary
thirty feet of his body are tossed erect in the air, and so remain vibrating
this terrific object seemed to recall the whole herd from their stationary
those circles, the entire area at this juncture, embraced by the whole
those watery vaults, floated the forms of the nursing mothers of the whales,
though in some few known instances giving birth to an Esau and Jacob: -- a
though the green palmy cliffs of the land soon loomed on the starboard bow,
thoughts.  For, d'ye see, rainbows do not visit the clear air; they only
threatened to swamp us.  Hard down with your tail, there!  cried a second
through his spout-hole; if it could truthfully be added that his spouts are
through that same gate he was now both chasing and being chased to his deadly
through the straits; gradually contracting the wings of their semicircle,
thus lay entranced, the occasional sudden frantic spectacles in the distance
time of the Commonwealth.  Thus, some of the best and furthest-descended
time, such a grand
to another, which, close to our gunwale, seemed calmly cooling himself with
to be taken, as will hereafter be seen, by some other craft than the Pequod.
to make good his regular allowance of air.  And not till those seventy breaths
to make long ones.  Nor were the oarsmen quite idle, though their wonted
to the light buoyancy of the whaleboat, and the elasticity of its materials,
to this fountain and fill it, and bring it away.  For even when coming into
to watch this harem and its lord in their indolent ramblings.  Like
took more than customary pains in that occupation; crawling under its bottom,
tormented colossal claw from the flame Baltic of Hell.  But in gazing at such
tossed bow of the flying boat; wrapt in fleecy foam, the towing whale is
tossing the keen spade about him, wounding and murdering his own comrades.
touching at a score of ports, the whale-ship, in all that interval, may not
touching it.  And I know one, who coming into still closer contact with the
touching the precise nature of the whale spout.  It will not do for him to be
towing drugg.  They were cramped like malefactors with the chain and ball.
trowsers we are much better entitled to st.  george's decoration than they.
true, seems the more cogent to me, when I consider the otherwise inexplicable
tumbling upon their inner centre, as if to pile themselves up in one common
tutelary guardian of England; and by good rights, we harpooneers of Nantucket
twin-jets of the Right Whale, which, dividing at top, falls over in two
unawares upon the whale in the fancied security of the middle of solitary
under extreme headway.  Steel and wood included, the entire spear is some ten
understand his head?  much more, how comprehend his face, when face he has
undulates through a Titanism of power.  On the contrary, those motions derive
universally, a lone whale --as a solitary Leviathan is called --proves an
unknown to artists; and considering that as in Perseus' case, St.  George's
unmolested, there is an undeviating rhyme between the periods of his jets and
unprincipled young rakes like him are to be permitted to invade the sanctity
unwearied activity with which of late they have been hunted over all four
up the coil of the warp in one hand, so as to secure its free end in his
up with rain.  Nor is it at all prudent for the hunter to be over curious
upon the school of females, you invariably see a male of full grown magnitude,
upward exclusion of water, therefore the whale has no voice; unless you
us up.  Keeping at the centre of the lake, we were occasionally visited by
us, but not at us, as if we were but a bit of Gulf-weed in their new-born
us, then, look at this matter, along with some interesting items contingent.
vacancy between.  In no living thing are the lines of beauty more exquisitely
vanished; then, with the tapering force of his parting momentum, we glided
vapor --no absolute certainty can as yet be arrived at on this head.  Sure it
vast, mild head overhung by a canopy of vapor, engendered by his
vessels, which vessels, when he quits the surface, are completely distended
vessels, which, in those waters, have been remorselessly boarded and pillaged.
vivid green Cockatoo Point on the Sumatra side, emerging at last upon the
vomited up somewhere within three days' journey of Nineveh, a city on the
waif is a pennoned pole, two or three of which are carried by every boat;
wall that hemmed us in; the wall that had only admitted us in order to shut
warmth.  By the time they have lounged up and down the promenade of the
was flung; the stricken fish darted blinding spray in our faces, and then
was soon heard; and then like to the tumultuous masses of block-ice when the
was still more strangely evinced by those of their number, who, completely
was the nature of those occult lessons he inculcated into some of his pupils.
watches the monster die.
water or dust in his trunk, and then elevating it, jet it forth in a
water; which, when three years afloat, the Nantucketer,
waters, and the best of wives she is, though she keeps so many moody
way greatly diminished; moreover, that as we went still further and further
we thus tore a white gash in the sea, on all sides menaced as we flew, by
we were now in that enchanted calm which they say lurks at the heart of every
weapons and their wants.  She has a whole lake's contents bottled in her ample
were the thing to do it.  Nor does this --its amazing strength, at all tend to
western world.  The shores of the Straits of Sunda are unsupplied with those
whale might have crawled up out of the sea on the beach; and considering that
whale only fights another sperm whale with his head and jaw, nevertheless,
whale seems concentrated to a point.  Could annihilation occur to matter, this
whale to land the prophet within that short distance of Nineveh?  Yes.  He
whale wounded (as we afterwards learned) in this part, but not effectually,
whale's head?  For even when tranquilly swimming through the mid-day
whale's rising exposes him to all the fatal hazards of the chase.  For not by
whale, sweep inshore by the Philippine Islands, and gain the far coast of
whale-jets were up-playing and sparkling in the noon-day air.  Unlike the
whale.  But then there were some sceptical Greeks and Romans, who, standing
whale.  Instead of sparkling water, he now spouts red blood.  That drove the
whaleman of him, that might be mooted.  It nowhere appears that he ever
whalers perform an analogous operation upon their boat; they grease the
whales, who sometimes come to deadly battle, and all for love.  They fence
whales; only they did not so completely come and go; for they constantly
what the spout is; can you not tell water from air?  My dear sir, in this
when a general pausing commotion among the whales gave animating token that
when he is about to plunge into the deeps, his entire flukes with at least
when used as a fin for progression; Second, when used as a mace in battle;
when you are close enough to a whale to get a close view of his spout, he is
where Ahab, though everywhere else foiled in his pursuit, firmly counted upon
where it hung over the side, and rubbing in the unctuousness as though
whether wielded in sport, or in earnest, or in anger, whatever be the mood it
which may probably be set down at nine months, producing but one at a time;
which on all hands it is conceded, form the peculiar practical virtues of his
which represented Jonah's whale with two spouts in his head --a peculiarity
which they swim, hence, a herring or a cod might live a century, and never
which undoubtedly contribute so much to the great strength of the masonry.
while other ships may have gone to China from New York, and back again,
while ponderous planets of unwaning woe revolve round me, deep down and deep
whit the less facts, for all that.  One old Sag-Harbor whaleman's chief reason
white mist, continually rising and falling away to leeward.  Seen from the
who being planted before the ark of Israel, his horse's head and both the
whole bulk of the leviathan is knit over with a warp and woof of muscular
whole they are hereditarily entitled to en bon point.  It is very curious
why, those sons and daughters must take care of themselves; at least, with
wide extent of the herd had hitherto prevented them from learning the precise
will about his face, I say again he has no face.
will occur to you; if in that of Isaiah, the archangels.  Standing at the
with any game hereabouts, the ship had well nigh entered the straits, when
with equal eye.
with many other sinewy Saxonisms of this sort, which emigrated to
with oxygenated blood.  So that for an hour or more, a thousand fathoms in the
with stun-sail piled on stun-sail, we sailed along, driving these
with the hempen one, so that the cub is thereby trapped.  Some of the
with the world.  Nor are there wanting other motions of the whale in his
with their long lower jaws, sometimes locking them together, and so striving
with two elements, it could not be expected to have the power of smelling.
without at all sounding, still continued his horizontal flight, with added
wondrous devices and dexterities, the sleights of hand and countless
wooden block, it caught under one of the seats of the boat, and in an
worked loose from his flesh.  So that tormented to madness, he was now
world it is not so easy to settle these plain things.  I have ever found your
world, unless forced to stammer out something by way of getting a living.
world-wandering whale-ship carries no cargo but herself and crew, their
worshipped white-elephant in the coronation procession of the Siamese!  So
would be gone.  As devout Eckerman lifted the linen sheet from the naked
would then live without breathing.  Anomalous as it may seem, this is
wounded planks, but we stuffed two or three drawers and shirts in, and so
yet it is to be observed that as a whole the herd neither advanced nor
you Queequeg --the whale there! --prick him! --hit him!  Stand up --stand up, and
your oars, and clutch your souls, now!  My God, men, stand by!  Shove him off,
