
















































    
     All dention, said Fleece, again stooping over upon his tongs in the
     Am I the same man that helped kill this whale?  Doesn't the devil live for
     Captain Mayhew, stand by now to receive it; and taking the fatal missive
     Captain, I have just bethought me of my letter-bag; there is a letter for
     Didn't say dat t'all, said Fleece, again in the sulks.  You said up there,
     Fellow-critters: I'se ordered here to say dat you must stop dat dam noise
     Go to bed berry soon, he mumbled, half-turning as he spoke.  Avast!  heave
     Hand in hand, ship and breeze
     Haul in the chains!  Let the carcase go
     Here, now, are
     I have given no small attention to that
     It should not have been omitted that
     It was a Saturday night, and such a
     Meantime, the hoisted sperm whale's head jogged about very violently, and
     Now, cook, said Stubb, resuming his supper at the capstan; Stand just where
     O man!  in all seasons a temperature of thine own.  But how easy and how
     Silence!  How old are you, cook? 'Bout ninety, dey say, he gloomily
     Stubb here alluded to a strange story told of the Jeroboam, and a certain
     Talk to 'em gentlemanly.  Once more the sermon proceeded.  Your
     That lively cry upon this deadly calm might almost convert a better man.
     That mortal man should feed upon
     The old monks of Dunfermline were very fond of them.  They had a great
     They have such an eatable look that the most self-denying stranger can hardly
     Well then, cook; you see this whale-steak of yours was so very bad, that I
     Whale-balls for breakfast --don't forget.  Wish, by gor!  whale eat him,
     When in the Southern Fishery, a
     Who dat?  Den preach to him yourself, sullenly turning to go.  No, Cook;
     a broad, semicircular line is cut round the hole, the hook is inserted, and
     and making a long arc in his descent, fell into the sea at the distance of
     as the strained line, scraping beneath the ship, suddenly rose to view under
     body, is at last locked fast round the smallest part of the tail, at the
     consideration before mentioned: i.  e.  that a man should eat a newly murdered
     fowls, whose beaks are like so many insulting poniards in the whale.  The
     get him to swap away his silver watch, or his soul, or something of that
     grey-headed whale.  Let us now note what is least dissimilar in these heads
     it is all the time being hoisted higher and higher aloft till its upper end
     never saw such a book; heard of it, though.  But now, tell me, Stubb, do you
     other end is secured to the ship.  By adroit management the wooden float is
     scarf, simultaneously cut by the spades of Starbuck and Stubb, the mates;
     strong individual vitality, and the rare virtue of thick walls, and the rare
     that of the fatal accidents in the Sperm-Whale Fishery, this kind is perhaps
     that they cast long gleams of light over the turbid sea, these
     the Pequod had gradually drifted into a sea, which, by its occasional
     the Right Whale are by far the most noteworthy.  They are the only whales
     the strongest point anywhere above a ship's deck.  The end of the hawser-like
     thou must either-- But that instant a headlong wave shot the boat far
     to rise on the other side of the mass, so that now having girdled the made
'em they are welcome to help themselves civilly, and in moderation, but they
'stead of him eat whale.  I'm bressed if he ain't more of shark dan Massa
-- Think, think of the blasphemer --dead, and down there! --beware of the
-- namely, the two most important organs, the eye and the ear.
-- take it, and taste it.  Faintly smacking his withered lips over it for a
--Where away?  Three points on the starboard bow, sir, and bringing down her
--the man's wife, I'll wager) -- Aye --Mr. Harry Macey, Ship Jeroboam; --why
.. < chapter lxix 2  THE FUNERAL >
.. < chapter lxv 12  THE WHALE AS A DISH >
.. < chapter lxvi 2  THE SHARK MASSACRE >
.. < chapter lxvii 23  CUTTING IN >
.. < chapter lxviii 29  THE BLANKET >
.. < chapter lxx 14  THE SPHYNX >
.. < chapter lxxi 2  THE JEROBOAM'S STORY >
.. < chapter lxxiii 23  STUBB AND FLASK KILL A RIGHT WHALE; AND THEN HAVE >
.. < chapter lxxiv 7  THE SPERM WHALE'S HEAD--CONTRASTED VIEW >
.. <p 290n. >
.. <p 293 >
.. <p 294 >
.. <p 295 >
.. <p 296 >
.. <p 297 >
.. <p 297 >
.. <p 298 >
.. <p 299 >
.. <p 300 >
.. <p 301 >
.. <p 301 >
.. <p 301n. >
.. <p 302 >
.. <p 303 >
.. <p 303 >
.. <p 304 >
.. <p 305 >
.. <p 306 >
.. <p 307 >
.. <p 308 >
.. <p 308 >
.. <p 309 >
.. <p 310 >
.. <p 311 >
.. <p 312 >
.. <p 313 >
.. <p 314 >
.. <p 315 >
.. <p 316 >
.. <p 317 >
.. <p 317 >
.. <p 322 >
.. <p 323 >
.. <p 324 >
.. <p 325 >
.. <p 326 >
.. <p 327 >
.. <p 327 >
.. <p 328 >
.. <p 329 >
A TALK OVER HIM It must be borne in mind that all this time we have a Sperm
A little item may as well be related here.  The strongest and most reliable
According to this account and what was subsequently learned, it seemed that
Ahab; thou art soon going that way.  Curses throttle thee!  yelled Ahab.
An interval passed and the boats were in plain sight, in the act of being
And now suspended in stages over the side, Starbuck and Stubb, the mates,
Beware of the horrible plague!  Gabriel, Gabriel!  cried Captain Mayhew;
Both are massive enough in all conscience; but there is a certain mathematical
But Fleece had hardly got three paces off, when he was recalled.  Cook, give
But I sometimes think he'll charm the ship to no good at last.  I don't half
But don't you know the higher you climb, the colder it gets?  Main-top, eh?
But nothing like this, in the present case, had been done.  The carcases of
But with the whale, these two sashes are separately inserted, making two
But, perhaps you expect to get into heaven by crawling through the lubber's
Christianity; go on.  No use goin' on; de dam willains will keep a
Death himself might well have been the post-boy.  Can'st not read it?  cried
Don't be tearin' de blubber out your neighbour's mout, I say.  Is not one
England rocks on the sea-coast, which Agassiz imagines to bear the marks of
Far back on the side of the head, and low down, near the angle of either
Fedallah wants to kidnap Captain Ahab?  Do I suppose it?  You'll know it
Fedallah's age.  Nor all the coopers in creation couldn't show hoops enough to
Flask with lance for lance; and thus round and round the Pequod the battle
Flask's saying proved true.  As before, the Pequod steeply leaned over towards
Fleece, as they called him, came shuffling and limping along, assisting his
France, and commanded large prices there.  Also, that in Henry VIIIth's
Gabriel
Gabriel started to his feet.  Think, think of the fevers, yellow and bilious!
Gabriel was seen eyeing it with rather more apprehensiveness than his
Greedily sucking in this intelligence, Gabriel solemnly warned the captain
He was therefore forced to relinquish his plan.  Nor would they permit Gabriel
Hold the steak in one hand, and show a live coal to it with the other; that
I remember some such story as you were telling, said Flask, when at last the
I'm coming to, cook.  You must go home and be born over again; you don't
In the case of a small Sperm Whale the brains are accounted a fine dish.  The
Jeroboam had a malignant epidemic on board, and that Mayhew, her captain,
Mayhew began a dark story concerning Moby Dick; not, however, without
Moreover, while in most other animals that I can now think of, the eyes are so
My original opinion remains unchanged; but it is only an opinion.  The
Nantucket, where, with that cunning peculiar to craziness, he assumed a
Nevertheless, many whalemen have a method of absorbing it into some other
Now, the beheading of the Sperm Whale is a scientific anatomical feat, upon
Pacific, this plan will not answer at all; because such incalculable hosts
Pequod.  I fear not thy epidemic, man, said Ahab from the bulwarks
Peter's!  of creatures, how few vast as the whale!
Pole.  Like the great dome of St.  Peter's, and like the great whale, retain,
Sabbath as followed!  Ex officio professors of Sabbath breaking are all
Secretary of the Society for the Suppression of Cruelty to Ganders formally
Shaker God incarnated; the Shakers receiving the Bible.  But when, some year
Shark hisself, muttered the old man, limping away; with which sage
So soon as this figure had been first descried, Stubb had exclaimed -- That's
Sperm Whale, will yield the bulk of one hundred barrels of oil; and, when it
Stubb's and Flask's, were detached in pursuit.  Pulling further and further
Stubb, approvingly, coax 'em to it; try that, and Fleece continued.  Do
Stubb, not without some disgust at the thought of having to do with so
The whaling-spade used for cutting-in is made of the very best steel; is about
There are those sharks now over the side, don't you see they prefer it tough
There's your law of precedents; there's your utility of traditions; there's
Thus, some minds for ever keep trimming boat.  Oh, ye foolish!  throw all
Whale's body, rushed to the fresh blood that was spilled, thirstily drinking
Whale's head hoisted on her starboard side, and at the same time a Right
Whale's on the larboard; did you never hear, Stubb, that that ship can never
Whale's prodigious head hanging to the Pequod's side.  But we must let it
What would become of a Greenland whale, say, in those shuddering, icy seas of
Zogranda, one of their most famous doctors, recommends strips of blubber for
a Saturday night and see the crowds of live bipeds staring up at the long rows
a broad white shadow rose from the sea; by its quick, fanning motion,
a god.  Such things may seem incredible; but, however wondrous, they are
a mule carrying a pair of overburdening panniers.  Meantime, Fedallah was
a peculiar motion of both hands -- Aye, will I!  Flask, I take that Fedallah to
a plate representing the old Indian characters chiselled on the famous
a whaling vessel --that these men actually lived for several months on the
a young buck with an intelligent looking calf's head before him, is somehow
a'lee; and then send every one below to his hammock till daylight, with the
about fifty yards.  Not a chip of the boat was harmed, nor a hair of any
about it.  Therefore, the common usage is to take in all sail; lash the helm
about of the same opinion; so give the benediction, Fleece, and I'll away to
accompanies the body.  But strangest of all is the circumstance, that in more
accomplished it was noon, and the seamen went below to their dinner.  Silence
accomplished swordsman, warning all hands to stand off, once more makes a
adhering to the timid quarantine of the land, he peremptorily refused to come
adjacent, interdicted parts, and exactly divide the spine at a critical
admirable sauce to be eaten with barbacued porpoises, which, you remember,
advance they sought to gain.  And they stuck to it till they did gain it;
after that White Whale, and the devil there is trying to come round him, and
afterwards capsize?  Why not?  I don't know, but I heard that gamboge
again.  Subject to this, and other the like interruptions now and then, a
against attacking the white whale, in case the monster should be seen; in his
ahab.  give it me, man.  aye, aye it's but a dim scrawl; --what's this?  As
ahead, and its seethings drowned all speech.  Hast thou seen the White Whale?
ahead, no more than he can one exactly astern.  in a word, the position of
all angel is not'ing more dan de shark well goberned.  Now, look here,
all hands swearing occasionally, by way of assuaging the general friction.
all the known varieties of the whale.  As the external difference between them
all the well known black bone attached to what is called the crown-piece.
all their might so as to get ahead of the ship.  For a few minutes the
allusion to the Indian rocks reminds me of another thing.  Besides all the
almost as frequent as any.  Sometimes, nothing is injured but the man who is
alongside and beheaded, to the surprise of all, the announcement was made
also seems to me that such scratches in the whale are probably made by hostile
altogether of an irregular, random aspect.  I should say that those New
always wanting oakum to stuff into the toes of his boots.  He sleeps in his
an atmosphere of sacredness.  Moreover, they were afraid of him.  As such a
an incorruptible sea and air rolling and flowing between; yet conscientiously
an ox whip when we get home; -- what else?  Now, do you mean what you say,
anchors rot; where in her murderous hold this frigate earth is ballasted with
and as the blubber in one strip uniformly peels off along the line called the
and can't be helped; but to gobern dat wicked natur, dat is de pint.  You is
and every one knows that some young bucks among the epicures, by continually
and ghosts of these creatures.  A sort of generic or Pantheistic vitality
and have been saying all along, stubb?  Mean or not mean, here we are at
and he certainly deserved it if any murderer does.  Go to the meat-market of
and hooded head; and hanging there in the midst of so intense a calm, it
and if he had been put on his trial by oxen, he certainly would have been;
and is all ready for lowering.  The heavers forward now resume their song,
and just as fast as it is thus peeled off, and indeed by that very act itself,
and large experience.  In short, he is what the fishermen technically call a
and put him in double-darbies, as he deserves, but lets him go about
and rare?  What a shindy they are kicking up!  Cook, go and talk to 'em; tell
and soft as satin; that is, previous to being dried, when it not only
and soon after news came from aloft that one or both the boats must be fast.
and struggling hosts, the marksmen could not always hit their mark; and this
and that is adding insult to injury, is it?  Look at your knife-handle,
and the huge lower block of the tackles was swung over the whale; to this
and while the one tackle is peeling and hoisting a second strip from the
answer?  When dis old brack man dies, said the negro slowly, changing his
any rate, it is pleasant to read about whales through their own spectacles,
anywhere near.  And though all hands commonly disdained the capture of those
archangel nature seemed to warrant.  When this interlude was over, Captain
archangel's denunciations and forewarnings, Macey succeeded in persuading
are a species of whale.  Porpoises, indeed, are to this day considered fine
are enabled to recognise each other upon the ocean, even at considerable
are you, cook?  What dat do wid de 'teak, said the old black, testily.
arguments against such a presumption; because you cannot raise any other
armed with their long spades, began cutting a hole in the body for the
array, something like those in the finest Italian line engravings.  But these
as the buffalo's (which is esteemed a rare dish), were it not such a solid
as you may say.  But what I am driving at here is this.  That same infinitely
as you may say; this seems so outlandish a thing that one must needs go a
astern!  The vast tackles have now done their duty.  The peeled white body of
at every new gash, as the eager Israelites did at the new bursting fountains
at him, with an Et tu Brute!  expression.  It is not, perhaps, entirely
at last, a swift, startling snap is heard; with a great swash the ship rolls
attached, every captain is provided with it.  Thereby, the whale commanders
attempt weighing a Dutch barn in jewellers' scales The Pequod's whale being
away the long blanket-piece as if it were a great live mass of plaited
away, they at last became almost invisible to the men at the mast-head.  But
azure sky, upon the fair face of the pleasant sea, wafted by the joyous
backs, so to speak; but, at the same time, also, two fronts (side fronts):
banquet that was going on so nigh him, no more than the sharks heeded the
be but the skin?  True, from the unmarred dead body of the whale, you may
be made.  Here be it said, that like the vessels of military marines, the
be the devil in disguise.  Do you believe that cock and bull story about his
because the whale is so excessively unctuous that landsmen seem to regard the
before long, Flask.  But I am going now to keep a sharp look-out on him; and
behind it.  If your bitterest foe were walking straight towards you, with
being not unwilling to let him have the opportunity, despite all the
being well seasoned and spiced might be taken for turtle-balls or veal balls.
belong to the church?  Passed one once in Cape-Down, said the old man
beloved fellow-creatures, have you, cook!  And yet you come here, and tell
berry brig mout, brigger dan oders; but den de brig mouts sometimes has de
berry joosy.  Cook, said Stubb, squaring himself once more; do you
better, an Indian poncho slipt over his head, and skirting his extremity.  It
beyond also rose to sight, and once more the boats were free
bite off de blubber for de small fry ob sharks, dat can't get into de scrouge
bitin' dare?  Cook, cried Stubb, collaring him, I wont have that swearing.
black or speckled.  In life but few of them would have helped the whale, I
blasphemer's end!  Ahab stolidly turned aside; then said to Mayhew,
blew on; but the breeze came faster than the ship, and soon the Pequod began
block the great blubber hook, weighing some one hundred pounds, was attached.
bloody-minded soldadoes?  Did ye read it there, Flask?  I guess ye did?  No;
blubber-room gentlemen coiling, the mates scarfing, the ship straining, and
blubber-room.  Into this twilight apartment sundry nimble hands keep coiling
blubber.  Among the Dutch whalemen these scraps are called fritters; which,
blubber.  Now as the blubber envelopes the whale precisely as the rind does an
boarding-sword, and watching his chance he dexterously slices out a
body itself.  Nor is this all.  In some instances, to the quick, observant
bones of millions of the drowned; there, in that awful water-land, there was
boots, don't he?  He hasn't got any hammock; but I've seen him lay of nights
borne a righteous husband to outstretched, longing arms.  O head!  thou hast
both whales had dropped astern; and the head-laden ship not a little resembled
bowed his arched back still further over, at the same time sideways inclining
bred'ren, just try wonst to be cibil, a helping yourselbs from dat whale.
breeze to us!  Better and better, man.  Would now St.  Paul would come along
breezes, that great mass of death floats on and on, till lost in infinite
broke out in a freshet.  He announced himself as the archangel Gabriel, and
brought about new revelations of the incredible ferocity of the foe.  They
bulwarks, and no one by; look down there, Flask --pointing into the sea with
buoyed up by its native element.  And there with the strained craft steeply
buried; and though one or two other like instances might be set down,
but if ever I get a chance of a dark night, and he standing hard by the
but straightway upon the ship's getting out of sight of land, his insanity
by one of those occasional caprices of the seas were tumbling, not heaving it.
cable till the body is stripped.  That done, if it belong to a small whale it
calm, like a universal yellow lotus, was more and more unfolding its
calmly eyeing the right whale's head, and ever and anon glancing from the deep
can fill your dam bellies up to de hatchings, but by Gor!  you must stop dat
can't hear not'ing at all, no more, for eber and eber.  Upon my soul, I am
can't remember where.  Three Spaniards?  Adventures of those three
cannot get at it from the boat, in order to put the chain round it.  But
captain, the stranger in question waved his hand from his boat's stern in
captured Sperm Whale, after long and weary toil, is brought alongside late at
carved into a snake's head, Stubb?  Sink him!  I never look at him at all;
casket of the skull is broken into with an axe, and the two plump, whitish
causes it to sink low beneath the surface; so that with the hand you
centuries ago the tongue of the Right Whale was esteemed a great delicacy in
chance of encountering them in the four oceans.  Thus, most letters never
chance.  Now, if he's so old as all those hoops of yours come to, and if he
chanced to hit one of many marks in the wide margin allowed.  He became a
clap t'other a'top of your heart, when I'm giving my orders, cook.  What!
close-grained beef, but tougher, more elastic and compact, and ranges from
clutched it in an instant, seized the boat-knife, and impaling the letter on
coiled away in his pocket, I guess.  Blast him!  now that I think of it, he's
coils it down, do ye see, in the eye of the rigging.  What's the old man
come to the hull, that at first it seemed as if he meant it malice; but
coming famine; it will be more tolerable for that provident Fejee, I say, in
command, came to a dead stop on the opposite side of Stubb's sideboard;
commanded the captain to jump overboard.  He published his manifesto, whereby
communication.  Preserving an interval of some few yards between itself and
conciliating the devil.  But, as yet, Stubb heeded not the mumblings of the
concluded; and when, accordingly, Queequeg and a forecastle seaman came on
congregate, and most hilariously feast; yet is there no conceivable time or
consequence of being kept in a dark locker of the cabin.  Of such a letter,
considerable hole in the lower part of the swaying mass.  Into this hole, the
contact with other whales; for I have most remarked them in the large,
contending strain threatened to take them under.  But it was only a few feet
continue hanging there a while till we can get a chance to attend to it.  For
contracts and thickens, but becomes rather hard and brittle.  I have several
conversation was sustained between the two parties; but at intervals not
cook, and don't know yet how to cook a whale-steak?  rapidly bolting another
cooked whales; but the Esquimaux are not so fastidious.  We all know how they
could not hope to reach her.  So the signal was set to see what response would
country?  he cried, sharply.  No, you didn't, cook; but I'll tell you what
course, went round the stern of the ship towing the two boats after him, so
creatures, that warm themselves under the lee of an iceberg, as a traveller
crew remained untainted, and though his ship was half a rifle-shot off, and
dagger uplifted in broad day, you would not be able to see him, any more
dam racket!  Cook, here interposed Stubb, accompanying the word with a
dare.  you hear?  stop dat dam smackin' ob de lip!  massa Stubb say dat you
de tail!  How you tink to hear, 'spose you keep up such a dam slappin' and
decapitated and the body stripped, the head was hoisted against the ship's
decision about the propriety of devil-worship, and the expediency of
deck to see that all goes well.  But sometimes, especially upon the Line in the
deck, no small excitement was created among the sharks; for immediately
declared these things; --the dark, daring play of his sleepless, excited
deeper men than Doctor Johnson who believe in them.
deeper midnight of the insatiate maw; and his murderers still sailed on
deliver my message.  Here, take this lantern, snatching one from his
delivery to the persons to whom they may be addressed, depends upon the mere
demanded Ahab, when the boat drifted back.  Think, think of thy whale-boat,
dense enveloping layer from the whale's body but that same blubber; and the
descended from heaven by the way of a trap-door, announcing the speedy
desired position.  Well, said Stubb, helping himself freely meanwhile; I
devil kidnapped, he'd roast for him?  There's a governor!  Do you suppose
devil?  Who's afraid of him, except the old governor who daresn't catch him
devilish easy and gentlemanlike, and inquiring if the old governor was at
didn't you, and now look yourself, and see where your tongs are pointing.
dignity.  In the present instance, too, this dignity is heightened by the
diminished, by vigorously stirring them up with sharp whaling-spades, a
dining upon calves' brains, by and by get to have a little brains of their
disciples among the crew, that at last in a body they went to the captain and
disciples believed that he had specifically fore-announced it, instead of
dish, as if stabbing with his lance; cook, you cook! --sail this way, cook!
dish, is his exceeding richness.  He is the great prize ox of the sea, too
disposing of the body of a right whale, when brought alongside the ship, the
distances, and with no small facility.  The Pequod's signal was at last
distinct windows, but sadly impairing the view.  This peculiarity of the
divinity.  Now, while Macey, the mate, was standing up in his boat's bow, and
done, dish it; d'ye hear?  And now to-morrow, cook, when we are cutting in
done, or else it's no go.  But none of us are in heaven yet.  Drop your
down; wedder Fejee god or Nantucket god; but de god wat made shark must be
dragged right towards the ship by the towing whale.  So close did the monster
duck you, though -- yes, and drown you --what then?  I should like to see him
each other, when heaven seemed false to them.  Thou saw'st the murdered mate
earth, and now not even hovering in the air!  There's orthodoxy!  Thus, while
eating of him with abhorrence; that appears to result, in some way, from the
eating.  The meat is made into balls about the size of billiard balls, and
effectually divided as they are by many cubic feet of solid head, which
eight or ten to twelve and fifteen inches in thickness.  Now, however
ejaculation he went to his hammock.
end of the second alternating great tackle is then hooked so as to retain a
erecting himself, while whole thunder-clouds swept aside from his brow.
even by the immense tackles of a whaler, this were as vain a thing as to
event clothed the archangel with added influence; because his credulous
ever-contracting gash thus made, he must skilfully steer clear of all
ever; declaring that the plague, as he called it, was at his sole command;
ever; who ever heard that the devil was dead?  Did you ever see any parson a
every rod that it so floats, what seem square roods of sharks and cubic roods
every sailor a butcher.  You would have thought we were offering up ten
everybody in the Jeroboam.  His story was this: He had been originally
exceedingly brisk in those Hyperborean waters; but these, be it observed, are
expect to go to, cook?
experiment, that the blood of a Polar whale is warmer than that of a Borneo
eye, those linear marks, as in a veritable engraving, but afford the ground
faded walnut tinge enveloped him; the overlapping sleeves of which were
fat goose?  With a feather of the same fowl.  And with what quill did the
fat to be delicately good.  Look at his hump, which would be as fine eating
fetched Elijah?  And fetch him where?  Up dere, said Fleece, holding his
first place, you are struck by the general contrast between these heads.
five men to man his boat.  With them he pushed off; and, after
flaming ship; heart to heart they sank beneath the exulting wave; true to
flat, and its upper end considerably narrower than the lower.  This weapon
flexible bows, bent round, and bit their own; till those entrails seemed
floating in the sun, and the white spray heaving high against it;
floats more and more away, the water round it torn and splashed by the
for far other delineations.  These are hieroglyphical; that is, if you call
for his tail, take it to the capstan, and give him such a wrenching and
for the Fejee that salted down a lean missionary in his cellar against a
for the Jeroboam's whaling voyage.  They engaged him;
for the future, when you cook another whale-steak for my private table here,
for what is it that makes the front of a man --what, indeed, but his eyes?
former the lips and tongue are separately removed and hoisted on deck, with
forth prophecies of speedy doom to the sacrilegious assailants of his
found at home, immersed to his lips for life in those Arctic waters!  where,
foundations.  Where unrecorded names and navies rust, and untold hopes and
frequent interruptions from Gabriel, whenever his name was mentioned, and
frightful roll and vomit, he turned upon his back a corpse.  While the two
from Starbuck's hands, he caught it in the slit of the pole, and reached it
from rowing; the boat drifted a little towards the ship's stern; so that, as
frosty weather; she trembles, quivers, and nods her frighted mast-heads to
full, and dare bellies is bottomless; and when dey do get em full, dey wont
full-grown bulls of the species.  A word or two more concerning this matter
galley, for, like many old blacks, there was something the matter with his
getting the mass in readiness for towing, some conversation ensued between
ghost of a Fedallah saying so, and he seems to know all about ships' charms.
giant Holofernes's from the girdle of Judith.  When this last task was
gibbering insanity, pronouncing the White Whale to be no less a being than the
glued in amber.  But more surprising is it to know, as has been proved by
go on, go on.  Well, den, Belubed fellow-critters: -- Right!  exclaimed
god made him shark, said the savage, agonizingly lifting his hand up and
goin' ober de Roanoke.  Born in a ferry-boat!  That's queer, too.  But I want
governor, "What business is that of yours," says the devil, getting mad, --"I
grapes was swayed up to the main-top and firmly lashed to the lower mast-head,
grazes the main-top; the men at the windlass then cease heaving, and for a
great prophet; in their cracked, secret meetings having several times
grizzled head, as if to get both ears in front at one and the same time.
growled, angrily, turning round to depart.  Come back, cook; --here, hand me
half-suspended mass, placed its other end crutch-wise under one arm, and so
hand it to the boat, without its coming any closer to the ship.  Meantime, Ahab
hanging from the Pequod's side; and as we may freely go from one to the
has not perceptibly lost anything in bulk.  it is still colossal.  slowly it
have been rid of him; but apprised that that individual's intention was to
have put it out of sight as soon as possible; you see that, don't you?  Well,
have so much to do with him for?  Striking up a swap or a bargain, I
having been stowed away on board ship?  He's the devil, I say.  The reason why
having plenty of line yet in the tubs, and the whale not sounding very
he cried at length, widening his legs still further, as if to form a more
he set himself forth as the deliverer of the isles of the sea and
he was studying it out, Starbuck took a long cutting-spade pole, and with his
he!  that's he!  the long-togged scaramouch the Town-Ho's company told us of!
he'll sneak off without the poor satisfaction of feeling his tail between his
headsmen were engaged in making fast cords to his flukes, and in other ways
hear you den; for den dey sink in de sea, go fast to sleep on de coral, and
heave of the windlass is answered by a helping heave from the billows; till
heaving, that his tail will come short off at the stump --do you see; and
her bows, snapping and quivering; and so flinging off its drippings, that
her even keel; though sorely strained, you may well believe.  So, when on one
hieroglyphic palisades on the banks of the Upper Mississippi.  Like those
him again; and keep ducking him.  Suppose he should take it into his head to
him, I'll eat this whale in one mouthful.  But look sharp-- aint you all ready
his blubber is.  That blubber is something of the consistence of firm,
his congregation, with the other hand he solemnly flourished his tongs, and
his death his ghost becomes a powerless panic to a world.  Are you a believer
his face in the admiral's cabin again for a long while, let alone down in the
his feet, glaring
his head, so as to bring his best ear into play.  Cook, said Stubb, rapidly
his shrill voice, and cried -- Cussed fellow-critters!  Kick up de damndest
his warm hammock at a most unseasonable hour, came shambling along from his
hold upon the blubber, in order to prepare for what follows.  Whereupon, this
hold which the ship has upon the whale when moored alongside, is by the flukes
holding the letter, muttered, Mr. Har--yes, Mr. Harry--(a woman's pinny hand,
hole, cook; but no, no, cook, you don't get there, except you go the
home.  Well, he was at home, and asked the devil what he wanted.  The devil,
honed, just like a razor.  In its socket, a stiff pole, from twenty to
hopeless to teach these fine things!  Of erections, how few are domed like St.
hours, say, on a stretch, little more than the skeleton would be visible by
hundred feet long, it takes away your appetite.  Only the most unprejudiced
idea may hence be had of the enormousness of that animated mass, a mere part
if I see anything very suspicious going on, I'll just take him by the nape
if by magic, the letter suddenly ranged along with Gabriel's eager hand.  He
ignoble a leviathan.  Wants with it?  said Flask, coiling some spare line in
imagination, and all the preternatural terrors of real delirium, united to
in a coil of rigging.  No doubt, and it's because of his cursed tail; he
in case a parcel is to be carried anywhere, or a dead slave to be decently
in case this intention was carried out.  So strongly did he work upon his
in ghosts, my friend?  There are other ghosts than the Cock-Lane one, and far
in life the great whale's body may have been a real terror to his foes, in
in the Jeroboam's boat, was a man of a singular appearance, even in that wild
in the log -- shoals, rocks, and breakers hereabouts: beware!  And for
in winter would bask before an inn fire; whereas, like man, the whale has
indeed wrapt up in his blubber as in a real blanket or counterpane; or, still
indeed, requires uncommon discrimination.  And that is the reason why
indeed, they greatly resemble, being brown and crisp, and smelling
indite his circulars?  It is only within the last month or two that that
individual life had departed.  Killed and hoisted on deck for the sake of his
infants, as being exceedingly juicy and nourishing.  And this reminds me
inferior creatures; and though the Pequod was not commissioned to cruise for
insatiate sharks, and the air above vexed with rapacious flights of screaming
insertion of the hook just above the nearest of the two side-fins.  This done,
instances than one, when the body has been recovered, not a single mark of
instead of containing gunpowder, was supposed to be charged with laudanum.  A
integument yields such a lake of liquid as that.  Reckoning ten barrels to the
interlude, the seamen resumed their work upon the jacket of the whale, many
into direct contact with the Pequod.  But this did by no means prevent all
invest this Gabriel in the minds of the majority of the ignorant crew, with
involuntarily yield the immense superiority to him, in point of pervading
iron hoops; this old Ebony floundered along, and in obedience to the word of
is a common thing for the seamen to dip their ship-biscuit into the huge
is a curious chap, and a wicked one, I tell ye.  Why, they say as how he
is always kept as sharp as possible; and when being used is occasionally
is by reason of this cosy blanketing of his body, that the whale is enabled to
is considered that, in quantity, or rather weight, that oil, in its expressed
is going to live for ever, what good will it do to pitch him overboard --tell
is hoisted on deck to be deliberately disposed of.  But, with a full grown
is mainly observable in their heads; and as a head of each is this moment
is still fast, the long upper strip, called a blanket-piece, swings clear,
is, a vengeful ghost survives and hovers over it to scare.  Espied by some
it
it's Macey, and he's dead!  Poor fellow!  poor fellow!  and from his wife,
it, sent it thus loaded back into the ship.  It fell at Ahab's feet.  Then
it; and if he makes any fuss, by the Lord I'll make a grab into his pocket
jaw?  Cannibals?  who is not a cannibal?  I tell you it will be more tolerable
just now, that you meant to give Fedallah a sea-toss, if you got a good
keep himself comfortable in all weathers, in all seas, times, and tides.
keep his hands off.  But what further depreciates the whale as a civilized
kidnapping people; aye, and signed a bond with him, that all the people the
knee-pans, which he did not keep well scoured like his other pans; this old
knife slightly split the end, to insert the letter there, and in that way,
know how to cook a whale-steak yet.  Bress my soul, if I cook noder one, he
laborious one; is not very soon completed; and requires all hands to set
land him in the first convenient port, the archangel forthwith opened all his
lantern, old Fleece limped across the deck to the bulwarks; and then, with
leaning far over the side in a mumbling voice began addressing the sharks,
leaning over to it, by reason of the enormous downward drag from the lower
legs.  And what will you do with the tail, Stubb?  Do with it?  Sell it for
leviathan this is impossible; for the sperm whale's head embraces nearly one
lifting a rather reddish morsel to his mouth, don't you think this steak is
like that chap, Stubb.  Did you ever notice how that tusk of his is a sort of
like the transparent, half-jellied, white meat of a cocoanut in the third
lines in his own hand.  And Ahab chanced so to stand, that the Parsee
little into the history and philosophy of it.  It is upon record, that three
live upon whales, and have rare old vintages of prime old train oil.
lobes being withdrawn (precisely resembling two large puddings), they are
lookest hoary with mosses; speak, mighty head, and tell us the secret thing
lungs and warm blood.  Freeze his blood, and he dies.  How wonderful is it
main-chains he took Stubb's long spade --still remaining there after the
main-masthead.  Aye?  Well, now, that's cheering, cried Ahab, suddenly
main-royal mast-head, was tossing one arm in frantic gestures, and hurling
make oughts enough.  but see here, stubb, i thought you a little boasted
man among her crew, some time previous when the Pequod spoke the Town-Ho.
man that ever murdered an ox was regarded as a murderer; perhaps he was hung;
man!  how far beyond all utterance are your linked analogies!  not the
man, however, was not of much practical use in the ship, especially as he
marks do not seem to be impressed upon the isinglass substance above
mast-head, and every yard-arm on that side projecting like a crane over the
mast-heads proved her a whale-ship.  but as she was so far to windward, and
mates; and since the epidemic had broken out, he carried a higher hand than
me cutlets for supper to-morrow night in the mid-watch.  D'ye hear?  away you
me such a dreadful lie as you did just now, eh?  said Stubb.  Where do you
me that?  Give him a good ducking, anyhow.  But he'd crawl back.  Duck
measureless self-deception of the fanatic himself, as his measureless power
mentioned, but seem to be seen through it, as if they were engraved upon the
mind.
moment
moment, the old negro muttered, Best cooked 'teak I eber taste; joosy,
month of its growth, yet far too rich to supply a substitute for butter. 
more character in the Sperm Whale's head.  As you behold it, you
more jovial spirits, than around a dead sperm whale, moored by night to a
morning.  In most other parts of the ocean, however, where these fish do not
mostly poor devils, cringed, and some of them fawned before him; in
mouldy scraps of whales which had been left ashore after trying out the
mouthful at the last word, so that that morsel seemed a continuation of the
much of him; but when you come to sit down before a meat-pie nearly one
much weary pulling, and many perilous, unsuccessful onsets, he at last
murdering of the sharks, by striking the keen steel deep into their skulls,
must keep quiet.  Blast me, if I can hear my own voice.  Away, cook, and
muttered Ahab, which, though ungarnished with a beard, yet here and there
muttered.  And have you lived in this world hard upon one hundred years,
my supper.  Upon this, Fleece, holding both hands over the fishy mob, raised
mystic rocks, too, the mystic-marked whale remains undecipherable.  This
nailest geese to the ground and feastest on their bloated livers in thy
nameless terror to the ship.  Mayhew having concluded his narration, Ahab put
neck; on the contrary, where his head and body seem to join, there, in that
negro in summer.  It does seem to me, that herein we see the rare virtue of a
nevertheless, upon stubb setting the anchor-watch after his supper was
night, it is not, as a general thing at least, customary to proceed at once
noiseless measureless leaves upon the sea.  A short space elapsed, and up into
nor should it be stayed but according to his good pleasure.  The sailors,
not long left home, when upon speaking a whale-ship, her people were
not the mightiest whale is free.  Nor is this the end.  Desecrated as the body
not unvexed subject, the skin of the whale.  I have had controversies about it
now on board the Pequod?
now take all the hoops in the Pequod's hold, and string 'em along in a row
nurtured among the crazy society of Neskyeuna Shakers, where he had been a
oarsman's head; but the mate for ever sank.  It is well to parenthesize here,
obedience to his instructions, sometimes rendering him personal homage, as to
obscuring the swarming fowls, nevertheless still shows the white mass
occasion when you will find them in such countless numbers, and in gayer or
occupied his shadow; while, if the Parsee's shadow was there at all it seemed
of dead quadrupeds.  Does not that sight take a tooth out of the cannibal's
of deceiving and bedevilling so many others.  But it is time to return to the
of fowls, augment the murderous din.  For hours and hours from the almost
of his neck, and say --Look here, Beelzebub, you don't do
of men like Stubb, nowadays partake of
of sharks gather round the moored carcase, that were he left so for six
of the Leviathan that but few supposed to be at this particular time lurking
of the skin or blubber of the whale.  It has already been said, that it is
of the whale's skin.  In life, the visible surface of the Sperm Whale is not
of whose mere
oftentimes tumultuous and bursting sea.  Bear in mind, too, that under these
oil-pots and let them fry there awhile.  Many a good supper have I thus made.
on her side; every bolt in her starts like the nail-heads of an old house in
one dam Ingin.
one dense crowd at the windlass.  When instantly, the entire ship careens over
one hand dropping his light low over the sea, so as to get a good view of
one of the saddest sights you can see.  The head looks a sort of reproachfully
one of thy officers, if I mistake not.  Starbuck, look over the bag.  Every
only making a general prophecy, which any one might have done, and so have
only to blend with, and lengthen Ahab's.  As the crew toiled on, Laplandish
opening of the seventh vial, which he carried in his vest-pocket; but, which,
operate from above, some eight or ten feet intervening between him and his
or tail; and as from its greater density that part is relatively heavier
or three years or more.  Soon Starbuck returned with a letter in his hand.  It
or two afterwards, Moby Dick was fairly sighted from the mast-heads, Macey,
or two the prodigious blood-dripping mass sways to and fro as if let down from
orange, so is it stripped off from the body precisely as an orange is
organ imparts.  The whale, therefore, must see one distinct picture on this
orlop there, where he lives, and hereabouts on the upper decks where he
other phenomena which the exterior of the Sperm Whale presents, he not
other, by merely stepping across the deck: --where, I should like to know,
out on the world from a sentry-box with two joined sashes for his window.
outermost enveloping layer of any animal, if reasonably dense, what can that
over obliquely crossed and re-crossed with numberless straight marks in thick
over towards the boat.  But as he did so, the oarsmen expectantly desisted
own, so as to be able to tell a calf's head from their own heads; which,
painted green, and which no single man can possibly lift --this vast bunch of
parallel to the Pequod, as she heavily forged through the sea (for by this
part of the regular linear appearance, by reason of numerous rude scratches,
parties; and though sharks also are the invariable outriders of all slave
patches of
pate-de-foie-gras.  But Stubb, he eats the whale by its own light, does he?
pepper and salt color of his head at the summit, giving token of advanced age
perhaps, ships shun the place; leaping over it as silly sheep leap over a
perpendicularly frozen into the hearts of fields of ice, as a fly is found
perspectives.  There's a most doleful and most mocking funeral!  The
pickle.  As for the ends of the flukes, have them soused, cook.  There, now
picture and not two to the brain; the peculiar position of the whale's eyes,
piercing shriek -- The vial!  the vial!  Gabriel called off the
planted as imperceptibly to blend their visual power, so as to produce one
point hard by its insertion into the skull.  Do you not marvel,
point of being brought with a deadly dash against the vessel's side.  But
point of junction with its broad flukes or lobes.
porpoise grant from the crown.  The fact is, that among his hunters at least,
preposterous it may at first seem to talk of any creature's skin as being of
previous to completely stripping the body of the leviathan, he was beheaded.
procedure notwithstanding, which, in some instances, only seems to tickle
profound darkness and nothingness to him.  Man may, in effect, be said to look
puzzling question might be started concerning
pyramid of fat.  But the spermaceti itself, how bland and creamy that is;
quarrelsomely carving away under the table at the dead meat; and though, were
quarter-deck, he paused to gaze over the side, then slowly getting into the
question is, what and where is the skin of the whale?  Already you know what
question.  Where were you born, cook? 'Hind de hatchway, in ferry-boat,
rapidly, they paid out abundance of rope, and at the same time pulled with
rather overdone?  You've been beating this steak too much, cook; it's too
reach their mark; and many are only received after attaining an age of two
reason.  Consider that the whale has nothing that can properly be called a
refused to work except when he pleased, the incredulous captain would fain
regular way, round by the rigging.  It's a ticklish business, but must be
regularly hunted by man.  To the Nantucketer, they present the two extremes of
reigned over the before tumultuous but now deserted deck.  An intense copper
reliably apprised of the existence of Moby Dick, and the havoc he had made.
remembered by the reader in some subsequent scenes.  A curious and most
resembling the thinnest shreds of isinglass, only it is almost as flexible
reservation that, until that time, anchor-watches shall be kept; that is,
responded to by the stranger's setting her own; which proved the ship to be
right whale's head hoisted up opposite that parmacetti's.  In good time,
rolled up on his wrists.  A deep, settled, fanatic delirium was in his eyes.
rope winding through these intricacies, was then conducted to the windlass,
row as ever you can; fill your dam' bellies 'till dey bust --and den die.
said for some moments, while a succession of riotous waves rolled by, which
sail, then. --Halloa!  stop!  make a bow before you go. --Avast heaving again!
same preliminary proceedings commonly take place as in the case of a sperm
same thing, that is to say, a shocking sharkish business enough for all
scientific dash at the mass, and with a few sidelong, desperate, lunging
scrape off with your hand an infinitely thin, transparent substance, somewhat
scrougin' and slappin' each oder, Massa Stubb; dey don't hear one word; no
sea-vultures all in pious mourning, the air-sharks all punctiliously in
seals and vials -- devoting the ship and all hands to unconditional perdition,
secure base for his supper; and, at the same time darting his fork into the
securing him.  Didn't I tell you so?  said Flask; yes, you'll soon see this
seemed the Sphynx's in the desert.  Speak, thou vast and venerable head,
seemed to lurk in their very joints and bones, after what might be called the
seemingly their only vital part.  But in the foamy confusion of their mixed
seen enough to split the planets and make an infidel of Abraham, and not one
seldom displays the back, and more especially his flanks, effaced in great
serpents.  And thus the work proceeds; the two tackles hoisting and lowering
shall now go back to the subject of this steak.  In the first place, how old
shark dood right as toder to dat whale?  And, by Gor, none on you has de right
sharks, sartin; but if you gobern de shark in you, why den you be angel; for
ship, the Jeroboam's boat by the occasional use of its oars contrived to keep
ships crossing the Atlantic, systematically trotting alongside, to be handy
ships of the American Whale Fleet have each a private signal; all which
shooting by, apparently making a passage to some other ground, the Pequod
shrieked out to his comrades to give way with their oars, and in that manner
side --about half way out of the sea, so that it might yet in great part be
side you hoist in Locke's head, you go over that way; but now, on the other
side, and another distinct picture on that side; while all between must be
side, hoist in Kant's and you come back again; but in very poor plight.
side, where fluke chains and other necessaries were already prepared for
side-ladder was being rigged by Starbuck's order to accommodate the visiting
sideboard; now then, go and preach to 'em!  Sullenly taking the offered
sighed Mayhew; but let me have it.  Nay, keep it thyself, cried Gabriel to
sight dragging after it the disengaged semicircular end of the first strip of
sights, to have looked over her side that night, would have almost thought
signals being collected in a book with the names of the respective vessels
simultaneously; both whale and windlass heaving, the heavers singing, the
skin of a new-born child.  But no more of this.  Assuming the blubber to be the
skin of the skin, so to speak; for it were simply ridiculous to say, that
skin of the whale; then, when this skin, as in the case of a very large
skin, one of these sharks almost took poor Queequeg's hand off, when he
skylarking; how can Fedallah do that?  I don't know, Flask, but the devil
slept by many a sailor's side, where sleepless mothers would give their lives
slicings, severs it completely in twain; so that while the short lower part
smacking of his own epicurean lips.  Cook, cook! --where's that old Fleece?
small bellies; so dat de brigness ob de mout is not to swallar wid, but to
small, short, youngish man, sprinkled all over his face with freckles, and
smallest atom stirs or lives on matter, but has its cunning duplicate in
sneaks so much.  Damn the devil, Flask; do you suppose I'm afraid of the
so largely abound, their wondrous voracity can be at times considerably
society passed a resolution to patronize nothing but steel pens.
some way ahead; but would be soon skilfully brought to her proper bearings
something like old Amsterdam housewives' dough-nuts or oly-cooks, when fresh.
sometimes pleased myself with fancying it exerted a magnifying influence.  At
sometimes stripped by spiralizing it.  For the strain constantly kept up by
somewhat resembling calves' head, which is quite a dish among some epicures;
sort, and then he'll surrender Moby Dick.  Pooh!  Stubb, you are
speculations were bandied among them, concerning all these passing things.
state, is only three fourths, and not the entire substance of the coat; some
stationary ship that hideous sight is seen.  Beneath the unclouded and mild
steady, common sense exterior and offered himself as a green-hand candidate
steak cooked as it should be?  Take it, I say --holding the tongs towards him
step with his tongs, which, after a clumsy fashion, were made of straightened
stood leaning over with eyes attentively fixed on this head.  It was a black
stoven and sunk!  Beware of the horrible tail!  I tell thee again, Gabriel,
straightway the whale's unharming corpse, with trembling fingers is set down
strange things were hinted in reference to this wild affair.
strange, apostolic whim having seized him, he had left Neskyeuna for
stript from him in long pieces, called blanket-pieces.  Like most sea-terms,
struggle was intensely critical; for while they still slacked out the
subject, and that subject almost hidden in a discolored, rolling, and
substance, and then partaking of it.  In the long try watches of the night it
subterraneous manner, without so much as getting one single peep into the
succeeded in getting one iron fast.  Meantime, Gabriel, ascending to the
such dried bits, which I use for marks in my whale-books.  It is
such questions to him, that the stranger captain could not forbear inquiring
sudden slap on the shoulder, -- Cook!  why, damn your eyes, you mustn't swear
suddenly going down in a maelstrom, within three rods of the planks, he
suddenly in the distance, they saw a great heap of tumultuous white water,
sullenly.  And you have once in your life passed a holy church in Cape-Town,
suppose that that devil you was speaking of just now, was the same you say is
suppose.  Bargain? --about what?  Why, do ye see, the old man is hard bent
suspending the cutting stages over the side, and lowering three lanterns, so
swallowed over and over again by the same mouth, to be oppositely voided by
swings, else it may box his ears and pitch him headlong overboard.  One of
switching his hoofs, up and says, "I want John." "What for?" says the old
syllable is thine!  Sail ho!  cried a triumphant voice from the
symmetry in the Sperm Whale's which the Right Whale's sadly lacks.  There is
tackles, among other ponderous things comprising a cluster of blocks generally
temporarily taking the breath out of the bodies of the oarsmen.  Next instant,
tender.  Don't I always say that to be good, a whale-steak must be tough?
terror-stricken crew from the further hunting of the whale.  This terrible
than any other (excepting the side-fins), its flexibility even in death,
than if he were stealing upon you from behind.  In a word, you would have two
that Gabriel had the complete freedom of the ship.  The consequence of all
that a Right Whale should be captured that day, if opportunity offered.  Nor
that certain Englishmen, who long ago were accidentally left in Greenland by
that head upon which the upper sun now gleams, has moved amid this world's
that is in thee.  Of all divers, thou hast dived the deepest.
that mainmast there?  pointing to the ship; well, that's the figure one;
that poured from the smitten rock.  At last his spout grew thick, and with a
that sort of consistence and thickness, yet in point of fact these are no
that they performed a complete circuit.  Meantime, they hauled more and more
that way when you're preaching.  That's no way to convert sinners, Cook!
that way, and to my breezelessness bring his breeze!  O Nature, and O soul of
that your heart, there? --that's your gizzard!  Aloft!  aloft! --that's it --now
that, Mr. Flask?  How old do you suppose Fedallah is, Stubb?  Do you see
that-- But again the boat tore ahead as if dragged by fiends.  Nothing was
the
the Jeroboam of Nantucket.  Squaring her yards, she bore down, ranged abeam
the admiral's cabin, don't you suppose he can crawl into a port-hole?  Tell me
the attending harpooneers now advances with a long, keen weapon called a
the beheaded whale flashes like a marble sepulchre; though changed in hue, it
the bigness of a man's spread hand; and in general shape, corresponds to
the boat's bow, did you never hear that the ship which but once has a Sperm
the capstan, I'll tell you what to do so as not to spoil it by overdoing.
the chief mate, burned with ardor to encounter him; and the captain himself
the crazy sea that seemed leagued with him.  It seemed that the Jeroboam had
the creature that feeds his lamp, and, like Stubb, eat him by his own light,
the cry from the ship to the boats, which, for one instant, seemed on the
the day of judgment, than for thee, civilized and enlightened gourmand, who
the devil didn't give John the Asiatic cholera before he got through with
the drops fell like bits of broken glass on the water, while the whale
the falling form of Macey, was plainly descried from the ship.  Raising a
the fish, be sure you stand by to get the tips of his fins; have them put in
the gaping wound.  Nor was this all.  It was unsafe to meddle with the corpses
the garden implement after which it is named; only its sides are perfectly
the hieroglyphics upon one Sperm Whale in particular, I was much struck with
the least among the many marvels he presents.  Almost invariably it is all
the luckless mate, so full of furious life, was smitten bodily into the air,
the main body of the crew striking up a wild chorus, now commence heaving in
the mutinous boat rapidly shot away from the Pequod.  As, after this
the north, if unsupplied with his cosy surtout?  True, other fish are found
the old black, not in any very high glee at having been previously routed from
the old black, with both hands placed as desired, vainly wriggling his
the present other matters press, and the best we can do now for the head, is
the proper skin of the tremendous whale is thinner and more tender than the
the proper word to use in the present connexion.  By my retentive memory of
the scaramouch in question had gained a wonderful ascendency over almost
the ship.  The boats were here hailed, to tow the whale on the larboard
the sky, and every one present must take good heed to dodge it when it
the sky.  More and more she leans over to the whale, while every gasping
the sperm whale's head, now, by the counterpoise of both heads, she regained
the story of your obstinate survival of old beliefs never bottomed on the
the whale would by all hands be considered a noble dish, were there not so
the whale's eyes corresponds to that of a man's ears; and you may fancy, for
the whole round sea was one huge cheese, and those sharks the maggots in it.
the windlass continually keeps the whale rolling over and over in the water,
them at all, and though she had passed numbers of them near the Crozetts
them into still greater activity.  But it was not thus in the present case
them.  I wonder what the old man wants with this lump of foul lard, said
then --except after explanation --that this great monster, to whom corporeal
then mixed with flour, and cooked into a most delectable mess, in flavor
then, I rather guess when he finds himself docked in that queer fashion,
then, at Stubb's boast, that he demanded but ten minutes to behead a sperm
there, my civilized and enlightened gourmand dining off that roast beef,
there?  Well, then, pull ahead, and let's get the whale alongside.  I think
these thunder-heads overboard, and then you will float light and right.  In
they most piously do pounce.  Oh, horrible vultureism of earth!  from which
thigh-board, in which the headsman stands, is torn from its place and
thin, isinglass substance, which, I admit, invests the entire body of the
thing of the sea, and eat it too by its own light.  But no doubt the first
third of his entire bulk, and completely to suspend such a burden as that,
thirty feet long, is inserted for a handle.
this difficulty is ingeniously overcome: a small, strong line is prepared
this noiselessness came Ahab alone from his cabin.  Taking a few turns on the
this one is very happy and significant.  For the whale is
this was, that the archangel cared little or nothing for the captain and
this, of course, must wholly separate the impressions which each independent
those mysterious cyphers on the walls of pyramids hieroglyphics, then that is
those rocks must not a little resemble the Sperm Whale in this particular.  It
those tongs; --now take that bit of steak there, and tell me if you think that
thousand red oxen to the sea gods.  In the first place, the enormous cutting
through the main hatchway right beneath, into an unfurnished parlor called the
thus annihilated; oftener the boat's bow is knocked off, or the
thy most familiar home.  Thou hast been where bell or diver never went; hast
tightened line in one direction, and still plied their oars in another, the
time it blew very fresh), with her main-topsail aback; though, indeed, at
time, a certain cook of the court obtained a handsome reward for inventing an
times by the sudden onset of a large rolling wave, the boat would be pushed
timid man-of-war or blundering discovery-vessel from afar, when the distance
to Captain Mayhew, who stood in the boat's stern; come on board.  But now
to be any way maltreated, say or do what he would; so that it came to pass
to dat whale; dat whale belong to some one else.  I know some o' you has
to fly.  But the fagged whale abated his speed, and blindly altering his
to help demselves.  Well done, old Fleece!  cried Stubb, that's
to know what country you were born in, cook?  Didn't I say de Roanoke
to lay them down.  Thou saw'st the locked lovers when leaping from their
to pray heaven the tackles may hold.  Now, during the past night and forenoon,
to rock.  By and by, through the glass the stranger's boats and manned
to the business of cutting him in.  For that business is an exceedingly
to the magnitude of the head.  Now, from this peculiar sideway position of the
to!  I mean when you die, cook.  It's an awful question.  Now what's your
together our own.  Of the grand order of folio leviathans, the Sperm Whale and
token of that proceeding being entirely unnecessary.  It turned out that the
told him if Gabriel was sent from the ship, not a man of them would remain.
ton, you have ten tons for the net weight of only three quarters of the stuff
tongs straight over his head, and keeping it there very solemnly.  So, then,
tongs, cook, and hear my orders.  Do ye hear?  Hold your hat in one hand, and
touching the set terms, places, and occasions, when sharks do most socially
towers between them like a great mountain separating two lakes in valleys;
transparent, as I said before; and being laid upon the printed page, I have
tried to shut down the dead lid of his murderous jaw.  Queequeg no care what
true.  Nor is the history of fanatics half so striking in respect to the
try it; I'd give him such a pair of black eyes that he wouldn't dare to show
two and two for an hour, each couple, the crew in rotation shall mount the
two boats were slowly advancing with their burden towards the ship, but I
two great whales, laying their heads together; let us join them, and lay
two mariners, darting their long whaling-spades, kept up an incessant
under the Pequod's lee, and lowered a boat; it soon drew nigh; but, as the
unharmed --while swift lightnings shivered the neighboring ship that would have
untoward circumstances he has to cut many feet deep in the flesh; and in that
upon the old man, and vehemently exclaimed, with downward pointed finger
upon the whale, and essaying to get a fair chance for his poised lance, lo!
upon their lines, till close flanking him on both sides, Stubb answered
upwards and backwards from the whale, and the triumphant tackle rises into
use a-preachin' to such dam g'uttons as you call 'em, till dare bellies is
vacuum, because their leader originally leaped there when a stick was held.
vast white headless phantom floats further and further from the ship, and
very place, is the thickest part of him.  Remember, also, that the surgeon must
vicar-general of all Oceanica.  The unflinching earnestness with which he
viciously snapped, not only at each other's disembowelments, but like
violence is discernible; the man being stark dead.  The whole calamity, with
violent scraping contact with vast floating icebergs --I should say, that
virtue of interior spaciousness.  Oh, man!  admire and model thyself after the
vision in advance of the straight side-line of sight; and about thirty more
want to use him." "Take him," says the governor --and by the Lord, Flask, if
warmth is as indispensable as it is to man; how wonderful that he should be
was fearful of infecting the Pequod's company.  For, though himself and boat's
was sorely tumbled, damp, and covered with a dull, spotted, green mould, in
was this long wanting.  Tall spouts were seen to leeward; and two boats,
waves; there, that blood-dripping head hung to the Pequod's waist like the
wearing mourning for the devil?  And if the devil has a latch-key to get into
wearing redundant yellow hair.  A long-skirted, cabalistically-cut coat of a
ween, if peradventure he had needed it; but upon the banquet of his funeral
went a sauntering into the old flag-ship once, switching his tail about
went, while the multitudes of sharks that had before swum round the Sperm
whale!  Do thou, too, remain warm among ice.  Do thou, too, live in this world
whale's decapitation --and striking it into the lower part of the
whale's eyes is a thing always to be borne in mind in the fishery; and to be
whale's eyes, it is plain that he can never see an object which is exactly
whale's jaw, if you narrowly search, you will at last see a lashless eye,
whale, is not so much to be regarded as the skin of the creature, as the
whale, the chain is readily made to follow suit; and being slipped along the
whale, the other is slowly slackened away, and down goes the first strip
whale-ship at sea.  If you have never seen that sight, then suspend your
whale-ship takes out a goodly number of letters for various ships, whose
whale; only, in the latter instance, the head is cut off whole, but in the
whale?  When first severed, the head is dropped astern and held there by a
whalemen.  The ivory Pequod was turned into what seemed a shamble;
whaling life where individual notabilities make up all totalities.  He was a
what is that handle made of? --what but the bones of the brother of the very ox
when instantly, a swift tremor was felt running like lightning along the keel,
when seamen fall overboard, they are sometimes found, months afterwards,
when tossed by pirates from the midnight deck; for hours he fell into the
when,
where you doubtless overheard a holy parson addressing his hearers as his
whether he intended to hunt the White Whale, if opportunity should offer.  To
which Ahab answered -- Aye.  Straightway, then, Gabriel once more started to
which experienced whale surgeons very much pride themselves; and not without
which you would fancy to be a young colt's eye; so out of all proportion is it
while Stubb, softly crawling behind, overheard all that was said.
whole air and demeanor, he hisself won't go nowhere; but some bressed angel
wholly disappeared from view, as if diving under the keel.  Cut, cut!  was
will come and fetch him.  Fetch him?  How?  In a coach and four, as they
will you obtain a better chance to study practical cetology than here?  In the
with a wooden float at its outer end, and a weight in its middle, while the
with all the reckless energy of his tribe was venting his wild exclamations
with both hands folded before him, and resting on his two-legged cane, he
with experienced whalemen afloat, and learned naturalists ashore.
with that mast, for oughts, do you see; well, that wouldn't begin to be
with the Pequod's sharks; though, to be sure, any man unaccustomed to such
without being of it.  Be cool at the equator; keep thy blood fluid at the
without lowering a boat; yet now that a Sperm Whale had been brought
without still another interruption of a very different sort.  Pulling an oar
woraciousness, fellow-critters, I don't blame ye so much for; dat is natur,
wrinkles there to the
ye may go.
years afterwards,
yellow brit, gave unusual tokens of the vicinity of Right Whales, a species
you are eating?  And what do you pick your teeth with, after devouring that
you don't see his tail, is because he tucks it up out of sight; he carries
you expect to go up into our main-top, do you, cook, when you are dead?
you have it.  Hold it there now, and pay attention.  All 'dention, said
you is all sharks, and by natur wery woracious, yet I
you stood before, there, over against me, and pay particular attention.
you to turn the whole affair upside down, it would still be pretty much the
your cold-blooded, lungless fish, whose very bellies are refrigerators;
your ears.  You would find that you could only command some thirty degrees of
yourself, how it would fare with you, did you sideways survey objects through
zay to you, fellow-critters, dat dat woraciousness --'top dat dam slappin' ob
