




















































































































































































































    
    
    
     According to usage they
     Already has it been
     And I, you, and he; and we, ye, and they, are all bats; and I'm a crow,
     And all this mixes with your most mystic mood; so that fact and fancy,
     And jolly enough were
     Astern there, sir, astern!  Lo, lo!  And who art thou, boy?  I see not my
     Aye, sir, I think I can; all seams and dents but one.
     Be it said, that in this vocation of whaling, sinecures are unknown;
     Besides her hoisted boats, an American
     Besides, the old man well knew that to steer by transpointed needles, though
     Bouton part of the inscription, yet the word rose, and the bulbous
     Broke it?
     But Fedallah, putting a finger on his lip, slid over the bulwarks
     But you must look at this matter in every light.  Though so short a period
     Come aboard, come aboard!  cried the gay Bachelor's commander, lifting a
     De balena vero sufficit, si rex habeat
     Drinking hot rum toddies with me every night, till he couldn't see to put on
     During the most violent shocks of the
     ENDERBY, OF LONDON Ship, ahoy!  Hast seen the White Whale?  So cried Ahab,
     Either do that, sir, or waste in one day more oil than we may make good in a
     Ere now it has been related how Ahab was
     Ere the English ship fades from sight, be
     Excellent!  Thou'st hit the world by that.  I know not, sir, but I was born
     Faith?  What's that?  Why, faith, sir, it's only a sort of exclamation-like
     Friends, hold my arms!  For in the mere act of penning my thoughts of this
     From his mighty bulk the whale
     Had you descended from the Pequod's
     Had you stepped on board the Pequod at a
     He vows and declares, Monsieur, that the other whale, the dried one, is far
     Hist, then.  How dost thou know that some entire, living, thinking thing may
     Hitherto, in descriptively
     I wish it was broken, or that I didn't have any nose at all!  answered the
     I wrecked thee, and to-day the compasses would feign have wrecked me.  So,
     In the first
     In vain it was to rake
     Inasmuch, then, as this Leviathan comes floundering down upon us from the
     Is this the still militant old man, standing at the corners of the three
     It was but some few days after
     Look ye here, then, cried Ahab, passionately advancing, and leaning with
     Loose-Fish?  What is the principle of religious belief in them but a
     Lord, that the winds that come from heaven should be so unmannerly!  This is
     Mend it, eh?  I think we had best have a new line altogether.  I'll see Mr.
     Next day, a large
     Next morning the not-yet-subsided sea
     No boat-knife was lifted when he fell so rapidly astern.  Stubb's inexorable
     No, no, it wasn't; I said the corpusants have mercy on us all; and I hope
     Nor has this thy whale sunwards turned his dying head, and then gone round
     Not seldom in this life, when, on the
     Now this ambergris is a very curious
     Oh, boy, nor will I thee, unless I should thereby drag thee to worse horrors
     Owing to a confident reliance upon other means of determining the vessel's
     Penetrating further and further into the
     Poor rover!  will ye never have done with all this weary roving?  Where go ye
     Rarmai (it will do; it is easy), he murmured at last, and signed to be
     Seat thyself sultanically among the
     Sing, sir?  Do I sing?  Oh, I'm indifferent enough, sir, for that; but the
     Starbuck seemed wrestling with an angel; but turning from the door, he
     Steering now south-eastward by Ahab's
     Stood our old Sammy off to the northward, to get out of the blazing hot
     Stubb and Flask
     Syren --made a noble experimental cruise; and it was thus that the great
     That whale of Stubb's so dearly
     The
     The allusion to the waifs
     The anchors are working, sir.  Shall I get them inboard?  Strike nothing,
     The blacksmith availing himself of the mild,
     The coffin laid upon two line-tubs, between
     The four whales slain that evening
     The precipitating manner in which Captain
     The season for the Line at length drew
     Then the whole world was the whale's; and, king of creation, he left his
     There he goes now; to him nothing's happened; but to me, the skewer seems
     There's a sight!  There's sound!  The greyheaded woodpecker tapping the
     There's something ever egotistical in mountain-tops and towers, and all
     Think you I let that chance go, without using my boat-hatchet and
     To begin: there's Aries, or the Ram --lecherous dog, he begets us; then,
     Ultimately the defendants (the crew of another ship) came up with the whale,
     Upon searching, it was found
     Warmest climes but nurse the cruellest
     We must save that boy.  He's drowned with the rest on 'em, last night, said
     Well, then, did I believe all ye say, oh my pilot!  I have here two pledges
     What now?  said the Guernsey-man to Stubb.  Why, since he takes it so easy,
     What will the owners say, sir?  Let the owners stand on Nantucket beach and
     What's that bunch of lucifers dodging about there for?  muttered Stubb,
     When gliding by the Bashee isles we emerged
     While now the fated Pequod had been
     With matted beard, and swathed in a
     Yes, yes, round the Cape of Good Hope is the shortest way to Nantucket,
     a
     a spar, a number of the seamen, arrested by the glare, now cohered
     always the whale-ship's stokers.  With huge pronged poles they pitched
     and Ahab moodily stalked away with the weapon; the sound of his ivory leg,
     and at two cents the cigar, that's nine hundred and
     and have a long talk with its inmates.  This place has previously been
     and not finding anything, had again dashed on; again paused, and lowered her
     and seemed merely contrived for his own individual diversion.  And Ahab, he
     and so be unsolved to the last.  And this thought it must have been which
     and so remorseless a havoc; whether he must not at last be exterminated from
     and the grave-digger in the play sings, spade in hand.  Dost thou never?
     and there it stayed for a twelvemonth or more; when I gave him an emetic,
     and thereupon, when some expressed their delighted surprise, he, in
     and trappers of the West, when the far west (in whose sunset suns still
     back, just in time to prevent the vessel from flying up into the wind, and
     be instantly brought to him, nor was there any denying him; seeing that, of
     berg, to put up), this village was founded in order to afford a place for
     both the ancestry and posterity of Grief go further than the ancestry and
     bowsprit was seen the long lower jaw of the last whale they had slain.
     broke to my fingers, and discharged all their opulence, like fully ripe
     buckskin legs and calves of legs I've seen in shop windows wouldn't compare
     but a
     but in the wife, the heart, the bed, the table, the saddle, the fire-side,
     but of the whales found in that
     but the sea will have its way.  Stubb, for one, can't fight it.  You see, Mr.
     but what after all canst thou do, but tell the poor, pitiful point, where
     but, besides the application to him of the generic remark above, this
     captain ahab mistakes; it is I. The oil in the hold is leaking, sir.  We
     clever things of that sort.  But I may as well say --en passant, as the French
     crim.  con.  case, wherein a gentleman, after in vain trying to bridle his
     days' suffering, laid him in his hammock, close to the very sill of the door
     desperate.  Ha, ha!  old Ahab!  the White Whale; he'll nail ye!  This is a
     during the midnight watch on the bearded forecastle of Noah's ark.  Was it
     elaborate history of whales, in the very beginning of his work (page 3),
     elephants;
     eternally.  In thoughts of the visions of the night, I saw long rows of
     float from forth the loom; the freshet-rushing carpet for ever slides away.
     flukes, an utter blank!  How vain and foolish, then, thought I, for timid
     for one single moment you would have almost thought you were standing in
     found something there in the vicinity of his thigh --I guess it's Sagittarius,
     from the boat, is still better.  Moreover, as if perceiving at last that if
     from which list, as translated by Dr.  Snodhead.  I transcribe the following: 0084400,000 lbs.  of beef. 60,000 lbs.  Friesland pork. 150,000 lbs.  of stock fish.
     get loose, or the tooth it was tangled to might draw (for I have
     give him your left arm for bait to get the right.  Do you know, gentlemen
     glimpses into those Polar eternities; when wedged bastions of ice pressed
     greeted my dear Pacific with uncounted thanks, for now the long supplication
     had the young and loving healthy wife listened with no unhappy nervousness,
     have his way.  If, then, he were this instant--put aside, that crime would
     he did not mean to, at least.  Because there were two boats in his wake, and
     head of the lance, and then handing to the mate the long iron rod remaining,
     here they are --here they go --all alive: --Aries, or the Ram; Taurus, or the
     his work).  Well, well, well!  Stubb knows him best of all, and Stubb
     hundred feet in length --Rope Walks and Thames Tunnels of Whales!  And even in
     impenetrable Japans.  Thus this mysterious, divine Pacific zones the world's
     inclosed surface of the works.  By a tunnel inserted at the rear, this
     is to run for Moby Dick?  the very course he swung to this day noon?  now
     it last.  For it was set apart and sanctified to one awe-striking end; and
     it operates like a leathern squilgee; and by nameless blandishments, as of
     lay before you a circumstance that happened within the last two years.  It
     man!  Ahab's harpoon, the one forged at Perth's fire, remained firmly lashed
     markest thou not that the gale comes from the eastward, the very course Ahab
     mortal miseries shall still fertilely beget to themselves an eternally
     multum in parvo, Sheffield contrivances, assuming the exterior -- though a
     my God!  who can tell it?  Mark, how when sailors in a dead calm bathe in
     nose in a sort of bag.  What's the matter with your nose, there?  said Stubb.
     now, since by many prolonged, repeated experiences, I have perceived that in
     occupying a conspicuous pulpit; intent on bible leaves; what a candidate for
     of hickory, with the bark still investing it, Ahab fitted the end to the
     oh, it's his son he's lost!  I take back the coat and watch --what says Ahab?
     oil is much accelerated, and its quantity considerably increased, besides
     oil, and bone, and blubber, were little short of audacity.  They know not the
     or any token of ever having been a wound -- Well, the captain there will tell
     or forty turns to form a preliminary hand-coil to toss overboard, when the
     puffing tobacco-smoke, so that it constantly filled their olfactories.
     rowing on the Line, --they only step to the deck to carry vast chains, and
     said the Guernsey-man, in French, turning to his captain, that only
     slim, sure enough!  Now, for most folks one pair of legs lasts a lifetime,
     so variously repeated in this book, that the skeleton of the whale is by no
     story of his wretched fate.  Belated, and not innocently, one bitter winter's
     that --let us say it again --no dying Chaldee or Greek had higher and holier
     that at last I was continually squeezing their hands, and looking up into
     that is, Virtue and Vice; we try to reach Virtue, when lo!  comes Cancer
     that the skeleton of the whale furnishes but little clue to the shape of his
     the Unshored; therefore, to the death-longing eyes of such men, who still
     the baling of the Heidelburgh Tun, or Case.  While some were occupied with
     the bright sun meets our glance half way, to cheer.  Yet, oh, the great sun
     the carpenter makes a pagoda-looking cage for it.  An oarsman sprains his
     the crimson fight were done: and floating in the lovely sunset sea and sky,
     the first harpoon, let this old great-grandfather have it.  But, Lord, look
     the forge choked up with cinders; the house was sold; the mother dived down
     the morn will show in far other, at least gentler, relief; the glorious,
     thee by thy black hand, than though I grasped an Emperor's!  There go two
     them for Sperm Whale spouts; yes, and sometimes sailing from their port with
     there to a hair, do I. Is't a riddle?  I should humbly call it a poser, sir.
     there.
     things real are there, but imponderable thoughts?  Here now's the very
     though it seemed but a minute since I had been watching the card, by the
     thy grave-stone, too, within the churchyard, and come hither, till we marry
     till at last, Perth, withdrawing his iron from the fire, began hammering it
     to it.
     to the defendants; the whale, because it was a Loose-Fish at the time of the
     vain!  In vain, oh whale, dost thou seek intercedings with yon
     was
     was kneeling beneath him on the ship's deck, and with face thrown up like
     weighed and found wanting; and while we are very sad about that, Lord!  how
     whaleman, as he seeks the food of light, so he lives in light.  He makes his
     when in distress, but also from the human look of their round heads and
     where his bayonet
     which have now been hunted for thousands of years, by Semiramis, by Porus,
     which measured eight feet and some inches.  From that part, the remaining
     while Stubb and Flask --who in some small degree seemed then to be sharing
     wind!  oh-he-yo, cheerly, men!  the crew singing for joy, that so
     with the Pequod's; at almost every shock the helmsman had not failed to
     woman of sixty-five who ran away with a bald-headed young tinker once.  And
     wonderful devices, chiselled shells, inlaid spears, costly paddles,
     yet steadfastly shot her red hell further and further into the blackness of
     yet the two substances are quite distinct.  For amber, though at times found
 20,000 lbs.  of Texel and Leyden cheese. 144,000 lbs.  cheese (probably an
 550,000 lbs.  of biscuit. 72,000 lbs.  of soft bread. 2,800 firkins of butter.
'Tis but indifferent architecture to make a blind dome; here's one.  No, no,
( sneezes) there's no knee-joint to make; that might puzzle a little; but a
( sneezes)--yes it's ( sneezes)--bless my soul, it won't let me speak!  This is
( sneezes).  Come, come, you old Smut, there, bear a hand, and let's have
(Carpenter standing before his vice-bench, and by the light of two lanterns
(both letters were published) that he had already done so, and received the
(reydan-siskur, or Wrinkled Bellies) at one hundred and twenty yards; that
(the reverend gentleman) would decline meddling with other people's business.
(turns to go).  Oh, Life!  Here I am, proud as Greek god, and yet standing
) it fitted out the first English
) our valiant Coffins and Maceys of Nantucket
, a fine ship, the
, on the
, the same house fitted out a discovery whale ship of their own, to go on
, this great whaling house was in existence, my numerous fish-documents
-- Bouton-de-Rose, ahoy!  are there any of you Bouton-de-Roses that speak
-- Come hither, broken-hearted; here is another life without the guilt of
-- Hemp only can kill thee.  The gallows, ye mean. --I am immortal then, on
--Aye and he would fain kill all his crew.  Does he not say he will not strike
--I hold it here; he would have killed me with the very thing I handle now.
--Mounttop; Mounttop--the captain); --as I was saying, I jumped into Mounttop's
--On deck!  Nay, sir, not yet; I do entreat.  And I do dare, sir --to be
--a hearse and its plumes floating over the ocean with the waves for the
--as some call him --and then I knew it was he.  Did'st thou cross his wake
--avast heaving there!  Jump, boys, and swing over the cutting-tackle.  As
--but here --to work!  Fashioned at last into an arrowy shape, and welded by
--fire worshipper, depend upon it.  Ho!  more and more.  This way comes Pip
--he called for linen thread; and moving to the binnacle, slipped out the two
--if there be no other way --for eight-and-forty hours only --only that --you
--not all though --were such famous, hospitable ships; that passed round the
--oh!  ah! --I guess so; so; --yes, yes --oh dear!  Look ye, carpenter, I dare say
--poor boy!  would he had died, or I; he's half horrible to me.  He too has
--so truly English --knowing not what to say, fall to vigorously scratching
--spread out his ribs like a gigantic fan --and swing all day upon his lower
--that having a long tow-line in his boat, he would do what he could to help
--that one and all, they started from their reveries, and for the space of
--that's all, sir.  Um, um; go on.  I was about to say, sir, that-- Art
--the whale's tail looming straight up out of it, perpendicular in the air,
--there's naught beneath.  And yet, a coffin with a body in it rings pretty
--though long parched by the dead drought of the earthy life, --in ye, men yet
--very gravely and mathematically bowing to each Captain in succession -- Do
.  But
.  But
.. < chapter c 2  LEG AND ARM THE PEQUOD, OF NANTUCKET, MEETS THE SAMUEL >
.. < chapter ci 10  THE DECANTER >
.. < chapter cii 2  A BOWER IN THE ARSACIDES >
.. < chapter ciii 10  MEASUREMENT OF THE WHALE'S SKELETON >
.. < chapter civ 30  THE FOSSIL WHALE >
.. < chapter cix 21  AHAB AND STARBUCK IN THE CABIN >
.. < chapter cv 24 DOES THE WHALE'S MAGNITUDE DIMINISH? WILL HE PERISH? >
.. < chapter cvi 29  AHAB'S LEG >
.. < chapter cvii 11  THE CARPENTER >
.. < chapter cviii 7  AHAB AND THE CARPENTER THE DECK--FIRST NIGHT WATCH >
.. < chapter cx 4  QUEEQUEG IN HIS COFFIN >
.. < chapter cxi 2  THE PACIFIC >
.. < chapter cxii 13  THE BLACKSMITH >
.. < chapter cxiii 2  THE FORGE >
.. < chapter cxiv 20  THE GILDER >
.. < chapter cxix 19  THE CANDLES >
.. < chapter cxv 16  THE PEQUOD MEETS THE BACHELOR >
.. < chapter cxvi 2  THE DYING WHALE >
.. < chapter cxvii 23  THE WHALE WATCH >
.. < chapter cxviii 2  THE QUADRANT >
.. < chapter cxx 10  THE DECK TOWARDS THE END OF THE FIRST NIGHT WATCH >
.. < chapter cxxi 2  MIDNIGHT--THE FORECASTLE BULWARKS >
.. < chapter cxxii 2  MIDNIGHT ALOFT--THUNDER AND LIGHTNING >
.. < chapter cxxiii 10  THE MUSKET >
.. < chapter cxxiv 25  THE NEEDLE >
.. < chapter cxxv 6  THE LOG AND LINE >
.. < chapter cxxvi 14  THE LIFE-BUOY >
.. < chapter cxxvii 2  THE DECK >
.. < chapter cxxviii 9  THE PEQUOD MEETS THE RACHEL >
.. < chapter lxxxix 2  FAST-FISH AND LOOSE-FISH >
.. < chapter xc 2  HEADS OR TAILS >
.. < chapter xci 2  THE PEQUOD MEETS THE ROSE-BUD >
.. < chapter xcii 31  AMBERGRIS >
.. < chapter xciii 15  THE CASTAWAY >
.. < chapter xciv 26  A SQUEEZE OF THE HAND >
.. < chapter xcix 30  THE DOUBLOON >
.. < chapter xcv 6  THE CASSOCK >
.. < chapter xcvi 17  THE TRY-WORKS >
.. < chapter xcvii 9  THE LAMP >
.. < chapter xcviii 2  STOWING DOWN AND CLEARING UP >
.. <p 393 >
.. <p 394 >
.. <p 395 >
.. <p 396 >
.. <p 397 >
.. <p 398 >
.. <p 399 >
.. <p 400 >
.. <p 401 >
.. <p 402 >
.. <p 403 >
.. <p 404 >
.. <p 405 >
.. <p 406 >
.. <p 406 >
.. <p 407 >
.. <p 408 >
.. <p 409 >
.. <p 409 >
.. <p 410 >
.. <p 411 >
.. <p 412 >
.. <p 413 >
.. <p 413 >
.. <p 414 >
.. <p 415 >
.. <p 416 >
.. <p 417 >
.. <p 417 >
.. <p 418 >
.. <p 418 >
.. <p 418n. >
.. <p 419 >
.. <p 420 >
.. <p 421 >
.. <p 422 >
.. <p 423 >
.. <p 423 >
.. <p 424 >
.. <p 425 >
.. <p 426 >
.. <p 426 >
.. <p 427 >
.. <p 428 >
.. <p 429 >
.. <p 430 >
.. <p 431 >
.. <p 432 >
.. <p 433 >
.. <p 434 >
.. <p 435 >
.. <p 436 >
.. <p 437 >
.. <p 438 >
.. <p 439 >
.. <p 440 >
.. <p 440 >
.. <p 441 >
.. <p 442 >
.. <p 443 >
.. <p 444 >
.. <p 445 >
.. <p 446 >
.. <p 447 >
.. <p 448 >
.. <p 449 >
.. <p 449 >
.. <p 450 >
.. <p 451 >
.. <p 451 >
.. <p 452 >
.. <p 453 >
.. <p 454 >
.. <p 455 >
.. <p 455 >
.. <p 456 >
.. <p 457 >
.. <p 458 >
.. <p 459 >
.. <p 459 >
.. <p 460 >
.. <p 461 >
.. <p 462 >
.. <p 462 >
.. <p 463 >
.. <p 464 >
.. <p 465 >
.. <p 465 >
.. <p 466 >
.. <p 467 >
.. <p 468 >
.. <p 469 >
.. <p 469 >
.. <p 469n. >
.. <p 470 >
.. <p 471 >
.. <p 472 >
.. <p 472 >
.. <p 473 >
.. <p 474 >
.. <p 475 >
.. <p 476 >
.. <p 477 >
.. <p 478 >
.. <p 479 >
.. <p 479 >
.. <p 480 >
.. <p 481 >
.. <p 482 >
.. <p 483 >
.. <p 484 >
.. <p 485 >
.. <p 485 >
.. <p 486 >
.. <p 487 >
.. <p 487 >
.. <p 488 >
.. <p 489 >
.. <p 490 >
.. <p 491 >
.. <p 491 >
.. <p 492 >
.. <p 493 >
.. <p 494 >
.. <p 495 >
.. <p 495 >
.. <p 496 >
.. <p 497 >
.. <p 498 >
.. <p 499 >
.. <p 500 >
.. <p 501 >
.. <p 502 >
.. <p 502 >
.. <p 503 >
.. <p 504 >
.. <p 505 >
.. <p 505 >
.. <p 506 >
.. <p 507 >
.. <p 508 >
.. <p 508 >
.. <p 509 >
.. <p 510 >
.. <p 511 >
.. <p 512 >
.. <p 512 >
.. <p 513 >
.. <p 514 >
.. <p 515 >
.. <p 515 >
.. <p 516 >
.. <p 517 >
.. <p 518 >
.. <p 519 >
.. <p 520 >
.. <p 521 >
.. <p 521 >
.. <p 522 >
.. <p 523 >
A peculiar walk in this old man, a certain slight but painful appearing yawing
A significant illustration of the fact, again and again repeated in this book,
Abashed glances of servile wonder were exchanged by the sailors, as this was
About it!  There; keep thy finger on it.  This is a cogent vice thou hast
According to this little plan of theirs, the Guernsey-man, under cover of an
Ahab had quitted the Samuel Enderby of London, had not been unattended with
Ahab standing by the helm.  Starbuck approaching him.  We must send down the
Ahab thus acted.  It may have been a flash of honesty in him; or mere
Ahab's brain, as standing like an iron statue at his accustomed place beside
Ahab's, was eyeing the same sun with him; only the lids of his eyes half
Ahab, leaning over the taffrail, eyed the homeward-bound craft, he took from
Ahab, said the reddening mate, moving further into the cabin, with a daring
Ahab.  And in the present instance, all this was heightened by the sight of
Ahab.  But if these secret golden keys did seem to open in him his own secret
Ahab.  Devils!  Dost thou then so much as dare to critically think of me?
Alas!  Stubb was but too true to his word.  It was a beautiful, bounteous,
Amelia, fitted out for the express purpose, and at the sole charge of the
And as for my exact knowledge of the bones of the leviathan in their gigantic,
And by the soundest commentators this has ever been held a cogent argument
And even if he for ever flies within the gorge, that gorge is in the
And look ye, let the carpenter make another log, and mend thou the line.  See
And what are you, reader, but a Loose-Fish and a Fast-Fish, too?
Antilles.  If ye find him, then comfort him; for he must be very sad; for
Archer, is amusing himself.  As we pluck out the shafts, stand aside; here's
Attached to this back-bone, for something less than a third of its length,
Bachelor, which had just wedged in her last cask of oil, and bolted down her
Bashee Isles, between which lies one of the tropical outlets from the China
Bashee isles (in whose sweet woods mild lovers must be walking), and with
Basilosaurus.  But some specimen bones of it being taken across the sea to
Because, as has been elsewhere noticed, those whales, influenced by some
Before this equatorial coin, Ahab, not unobserved by others, was now pausing.
Behring's straits, and into the remotest secret drawers and lockers of the
Bible leaves!  Bible leaves!  This is the invariable cry from the mates to
Bobbing up and down in that sea, Pip's ebon head showed like a head of cloves.
Brandreth's pills, and then running out of harm's way, as laborers do in
Bull and Jimimi!  here's Gemini himself, or the Twins.  Well; the sun he
Bunger. (Bunger, you dog, laugh out!  why don't ye?  You know you're a
Burtons were hoisted.
But I had no hand in shipping that ivory arm there; that thing is against all
But by far the most wonderful of all cetacean relics was the almost complete
But ere he entered his cabin, a light, unnatural, half-bantering, yet most
But heedless of all this, his mood seized Ahab, as he happened to glance
But here a curious difficulty presented itself.  In the excitement of the
But it so happened, that those boats, without seeing Pip, suddenly spying
But that night, in particular, a strange (and ever since inexplicable)
But when Leviathan is the text, the case is altered.  Fain am I to stagger to
But, in the end, it all came out; this one matter did, at least.  That direful
Can you land a full-grown whale on your deck for examination, as a cook
Cannibal?  As I live he's comparing notes; looking at his thigh bone; thinks
Captain Ahab!  sir, sir!  here's Pip, trying to get on board again.  Peace,
Captain Boomer here, stood our old Sammy-- Samuel Enderby is the name of
Captain Boomer's facetious interruption, that spite of my best and severest
Captain Coffin was examined at the bar of the English House of Commons on that
Captain's round-house abaft; and looking in that direction saw a fiery face
Carpenter, when he's through with that buckle, tell him to forge a pair of
Christian or civilized part of the crew said it was mermaids, and shuddered;
Cinque Ports are partially or somehow under the jurisdiction of a sort of
Cinque Ports, had after a hard chase succeeded in killing and beaching a fine
Coke-upon-Littleton of the fist.  True, among the more upright and honorable
Come hither!  bury thyself in a life which, to your now equally abhorred and
Commanded by a naval Post-Captain, the Rattler made a rattling voyage of it,
Commodores, and Captains; the world brags of thee, of thy cunning and might;
Connecticut, he had once enlivened many a fiddler's frolic on the green; and
Cruppered with a coffin!  Sailing about with a grave-yard tray!  But never
Cutting me a green measuring-rod, I once more dived within the skeleton.
Daggoo!  What say ye, pagans!  Will ye give me as much blood as will cover
Death plucked down some virtuous elder brother, on whose whistling daily toil
Dick doesn't bite so much as he swallows.  Well, then, interrupted Bunger,
Dr.  Snodhead, so soon as he spied the book, assured me that Dan Coopman did
During the night-watches some cynical old sailors will crawl into them and
East-south-east --which he was to steer, if practicable, was once more given
Enderby was a jolly ship; of good fare and plenty; fine flip and strong;
English?  Yes, rejoined a Guernsey-man from the bulwarks, who turned out
Englishman.  I was ignorant of the White Whale at that time.  Well, one day
Englishmen.  Oh!  cried the one-armed captain, Oh, yes!  Well; after he
Epitome calls the zodiac, and what my almanack below calls ditto.  I'll get
Eternity.  An awe that cannot be named would steal over you as you sat by the
Evangelist St.  John.  And meet it is, that over these sea-pastures,
Fast-Fish?  What are the Duke of Dunder's hereditary towns and hamlets but
Fast-Fish?  What to that redoubted harpooneer, John Bull, is poor Ireland,
Fate.  But as ever before, the pagan harpooneers remained almost wholly
Flask --was startled by a cry so plaintively wild and unearthly --like
Flask.  But hark, again, and I'll answer ye the other thing.  First take your
For example, --after a weary and perilous chase and capture of a whale, the
Forty men in one ship hunting the Sperm Whale for forty-eight months think
Forward there!  Set all sail, and keep her to the wind!  And thus, while the
Fossil Whales, I present my credentials as a geologist, by stating that in my
Frenchman's two whales.  Elsewhere in this volume the slanderous aspersion has
From their arrow-slit in the skull, the priests perceived me taking the
Glen; the trees stood high and haughty, feeling their living sap; the
God's sake --I beg, I conjure --here exclaimed the stranger Captain to Ahab,
God, not that; yet I fear something, Captain Ahab.  Is not this harpoon for
Greece to the Turk?  What India to England?  What at last will Mexico be to
Greece, two thousand years ago, did die, so good, so wise, so mild; I
Guernsey-man had a little chat with him, during which the stranger mate
Guernsey-man, who did not seem to relish the job he was at very much.  But
Hand me those main-mast links there; I would fain feel this pulse, and let
Hark ye; if ye find Pip, tell all the Antilles he's a runaway; a coward, a
Harpooneer, must have the head, and the Queen be respectfully presented with
Hast lost any men?  Not enough to speak of --two islanders, that's all; --but
Hear me, then: I take that mast-head flame we saw for a sign of good luck;
Here lounged the watch, when not otherwise employed, looking into the red
Hereby perhaps Stubb indirectly hinted, that though man loved his fellow,
Hold; while Prometheus is about it, I'll order a complete man after a
Holding by a shroud, Starbuck was standing on the quarter-deck; at every
Hook, I'd not look at it very long ere spending it.  Humph!  in my poor,
I can stand the rest, for they have plain wits; but he's too crazy-witty
I didn't then know what whale it was that had served me such a trick, till
I jumped into my first mate's boat --Mr. Mounttop's here (by the way, Captain
I kept my job-shop in the Vineyard; they might have taken it into their
I may as well, said the surgeon, coolly.  I was about observing, sir, before
I mean.  Canst thou not drive that old Adam away?  Truly, sir, I begin to
I must go.  He says, Monsieur, that his principles won't admit of his
I must see.  Aye, aye; and powder in the pan; -- that's not good.  Best spill
I myself almost melted into it; I squeezed that sperm till a strange sort of
I own thy speechless, placeless power; but to the last gasp of my earthquake
I sat down before a large Constantine's bath of it, I found it strangely
I shall now simply point out what is most interesting in the general bulk of
I then pay over the same with pitch, sir?  moving his hand as with a
I'll contribute to raise rods on the Himmalehs and Andes, that all the world
I.  Lo!  in my brief sleep I had turned myself about, and was fronting the
If he cuts off one of his own toes, or one of his assistants', would you be
If.  But once gone through, we trace the round again; and are infants, boys,
Immemorial to all his order, this investiture alone will adequately protect
In Sperm-whalemen with any considerable quantity of oil on board, it is a
In outer aspect, Pip and Dough-Boy made a match, like a black pony and a
Instantly the yards were squared, to the lively song of Ho!  the fair
Ishmael; but have a care how you seize the privilege of Jonah alone; the
Isle of Albemarle, one of the Gallipagos, is cut by the Equator right in the
Isles of the sea combined.  Moreover: we are to consider, that from the
Japanese Whaling Ground first became generally known.  The Syren in this
John Leo, the old Barbary traveller.  Not far from the Sea-side, they have a
Just in time, sir.  If the captain pleases, I will now mark the length.  Let
Kedron, as darkly set forth in the 15th chapter of the first book of Kings.
Labor's iron lullaby, the blacksmith's infants were rocked to slumber.  Oh,
Laws of England, which taken along with the context, means, that of all whales
Leviathan's tail: it averages an inch in thickness, and for the rest, is
Leviathan, it behoves me to approve myself omnisciently exhaustive in the
Leviathan, they weary me, and make me faint with their out-reaching
Leviathan.  Nippers.  Strictly this word is not indigenous to the whale's
Leviathans, and proverbially the most dangerous to encounter; excepting
Leviathans, their incalculable seniors; I am, by a flood, borne back to that
Liberties of the World but Loose-Fish?  What all men's minds and opinions but
Likewise, by way of preliminary, I desire to remind the reader, that while
Lion, lies in the path --he gives a few fierce bites and surly dabs with his
Look at the sailor, called the mincer, who now comes along, and assisted by
Look, driven one leg to death, and spavined the other for life, and now wears
Loose-Fish is fair game for anybody who can soonest catch it.  But what plays
Loose-Fish?  What to the ostentatious smuggling verbalists are the thoughts of
Lord Warden's.  Upon this the poor mariners in their respectful consternation
Lord and master over all this scene, the captain stood erect on the ship's
Maachah in Judea; and for worshipping which, king Asa, her son, did depose
Main-top-sail yard. --Tashtego passing new lashings around it.  Um, um, um.
Manilla isles, the Spanish land-breeze, wantonly turned sailor, had gone to
Marine Insurance companies have extra guarantees?  Here are hydrants,
Marking all this, Stubb argued well for his scheme, and turning to the
Matsmai, and Sikoke.  With his snow-white new ivory leg braced against the
Mecca, for the same purpose that frankincense is carried to St.  Peter's in
Meddling with other People's Business.  Yes; these laws might be engraven on a
Moby Dick had suddenly loomed up out of the blue water, not very far to
Moby Dick?  This instant thou must be eyeing him.  These eyes of mine look
Monsieur had best drop all four boats, and pull the ship away from these
Moreover, the ship's forge was ordered to be hoisted out of its temporary
Nevertheless, in the proper place we shall see that no knowing fisherman will
Nevertheless, this old man's was a patient hammer wielded by a patient arm.
No murmur, no impatience, no petulence did come from him.  Silent, slow, and
Noah's flood, he despised Noah's Ark; and if ever the world is to be again
Nor must there be omitted another strange attestation of the antiquity of the
North and South Atlantic: not elsewhere.  Be it distinctly recorded here,
Now that the incorruption of this most fragrant ambergris should be found in
Now, as the lightning rod to a spire on shore is intended to carry off the
Now, from the South and West the Pequod was drawing nigh to Formosa and the
Oh!  my friends, but this is man-killing!  Yet this is life.  For hardly have
Oh, high aspiring, rainbowed jet! --that one strivest, this one jettest all in
Oh, sir, it will break bones--beware, beware!  No fear; I like a good grip; I
One day the planks stream with freshets of blood and oil; on the sacred
Only a fool would try it.  Say he were pinioned even; knotted all over with
Pacific were thrown open.  But not content with this good deed, the
Pandects and the By-laws of the Chinese Society for the Suppression of
Paul in Corinthians, about corruption and incorruption; how that we are sown
People imagine, that by a secret Power bestowed by God upon the Temple, no
Pequod thrust her undaunted bows into the opposing wind, for the supposed
Pequod was as infallibly going West.  But ere the first wild alarm could get
Pequod with the little negro Pippin by nick-name, Pip by abbreviation.  Poor
Pequod's main-chains, and he sprang to the deck.  Immediately he was
Pequod.  He desired that ship to unite with his own in the search; by sailing
Perhaps the only formal whaling code authorized by legislative enactment, was
Perth to the shank, the steel soon pointed the end of the iron; and as the
Perth, resting for a moment on his hammer; I am past scorching; not easily
Pharaoh's.  Methuselah seems a school-boy.  I look round to shake hands with
Philistines, has but two props to stand on.  Is it not a saying in every one's
Pip loved life, and all life's peaceable securities; so that the
Pip!  ye have heard of him before; ye must remember his tambourine on that
Pip's ringed horizon began to expand around him miserably.  By the merest
Pip?  come to help; eh, Pip?  Pip?  whom call ye Pip?  Pip jumped from the
Popayan; with plenty of gold moidores and pistoles, and joes, and half joes,
Prometheus about there? --the blacksmith, I mean --what's he about?  He must be
Queen Anne's farthing, or the barb of a harpoon, and worn round the neck, so
Queen-pinmoney, an old King's Bench author, one William Prynne, thus
Queequeg in his own proper person was a riddle to unfold; a wondrous work in
Queequeg lay with closed eyes, as if in a dream.  Pip was led away, and the
Queequeg suddenly rallied; soon there seemed no need of the carpenter's box:
Queequeg's tattooing burned like Satanic blue flames on his body.  The tableau
Queequeg, die; and I'll beat ye your dying march.  I have heard, murmured
Queequeg, was seized with a fever, which brought him nigh to his endless end.
Rachel's the more melancholy, was the circumstance, that not only was one of
Rat-tat!  So man's seconds tick!  Oh!  how immaterial are all materials!  What
Rib of an incredible length for a Miracle, which lying upon the Ground with
Roman tiles and pottery buried in fat English loam.  His boat's crew were all
Rome.  Some wine merchants drop a few grains into claret, to flavor it.  Who
Rose-bud, that it's all nonsense trying to get any oil out of such whales?  As
Sahara, nor all the millions of miles of deserts and of griefs beneath the
Samuel Enderby, merchant of that city, the original of the famous whaling
Scotland, and in the States of Louisiana, Mississippi, and Alabama.  Among the
Seas, on the very coasts of that Esquimaux country where the convivial
Seeing how matters stood, and what a noble great whale it was --the noblest
Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, his spermaceti, oil, and bone pass unscathed
Shem.  I am horror-struck at this antemosaic, unsourced existence of the
Signals, ensigns, and jacks of all colors were flying from her rigging, on
Sir Clifford thinks of charging twopence for a peep at the whispering gallery
Skies the most effulgent but basket the deadliest thunders: gorgeous Cuba
Snodhead, a very learned man, professor of Low Dutch and High German in the
Solomon.  But even Solomon, he says, the man that wandereth out of the way
Some few hands are reserved called ship-keepers, whose province it is to work
Some hours after midnight, the Typhoon abated so much, that through the
Sorrows, and the truest of all books is Solomon's, and Ecclesiastes is the
South-Sea-men's cabin furniture), and pointing it towards Starbuck,
Sperm Whales have been captured near a hundred feet long at the time of
Spitzbergen sea, did not much exceed three months, say, and reckoning 30 men
Squeeze!  squeeze!  squeeze!  all the morning long; I squeezed that sperm till
Starbuck looked away.  With a blow from the top-maul Ahab knocked off the steel
Starbuck lowly murmured: -- Loveliness unfathomable, as ever lover saw in his
Starbuck, a wave has such a great long start before it leaps, all round the
Starbuck, after a melancholy pause.  Rig it, carpenter; do not look at me
Starbuck, gazing down the scuttle, that in violent fevers, men, all
Starbuck, going forward, pushed against some one.  It was Stubb.  What
Stop that thunder!  Plenty too much thunder up here.  What's the use of
Stubb about it.
Stubb by the shoulder, and pointing his hand towards the weather bow,
Stubb was now politely introduced by the Guernsey-man, who at once
Stubb was struck by a shower of outcries and anathemas proceeding from the
Stubb, that somewhere hereabouts are some of those drugged whales we tickled
Stubb.  It will make a good enough one, said Flask, the carpenter here can
Stubb.  Oh, jolly's the word for aye!  Adieu, Doubloon!  But stop; here comes
Such a clearer!  such a sweetener!  such a softener!  such a delicious
Such a statement may prove useful here.  According to a careful calculation I
Tahitian and the grizzly Manxman.  Take the reel, one of ye, I'll heave.
Taurus, or the Bull --he bumps us the first thing; then Gemini, or the Twins --
Temple, the Rafters and Beams of which are made of Whale-Bones; for Whales
Tertiary system, those belonging to its latter formations exceed in size
That unblinkingly vivid Japanese sun seems the blazing focus of the glassy
That's mud; we leave clay to ditchers, sir.  The fellow's impious!  What art
The English were preceded in the whale fishery by the Hollanders, Zealanders,
The burning ship drove on, as if remorselessly commissioned to some vengeful
The firm tower, that is Ahab; the volcano, that is Ahab; the courageous, the
The intense concentration of self in the middle of such a heartless immensity,
The land is hundreds of leagues away, and locked Japan the nearest.  I stand
The parted mouth of Tashtego revealed his shark-white teeth, which strangely
The recall signals were placed in the rigging; darkness came on; and forced
The waif-pole was thrust upright into the dead whale's spout-hole; and the
The weaver-god, he weaves; and by that weaving is he deafened, that he hears
Then turning --the last link held fast in his left hand, he put his foot upon
There are forty and odd vertebrae in all, which in the skeleton are not
There is a wisdom that is woe; but there is a woe that is madness.  And there
There is another substance, and a very singular one, which turns up in the
There, take the order, and away.  Now, what's he speaking about, and who's he
They generally go in pairs, --a pike-and-gaff-man and a spade-man.  The
They went towards the extreme stern, on the ship's lee side, where the deck,
This done, pole, iron, and rope --like the Three Fates --remained inseparable,
Thou canst blind; but I can then grope.  Thou canst consume; but I can then
Thunder!  said Ahab, groping his way along the bulwarks to his pivot-hole;
Thus we see how that the spine of even the hugest of living things tapers off
Titans, they say, hummed snatches when chipping out the craters for volcanoes;
Tranque, years ago, when attached to the trading-ship Dey of Algiers, I was
Tranquilly permitting these irregular cursings to evaporate, Stubb then in a
Turk's-headed life-lines, each three feet long hanging all round to the
Typhoon which had struck her directly ahead.  When darkness came on, sky and
Typhoon, the man at the Pequod's jaw-bone tiller had several times been
Unwittingly here a secret has been divulged, which perhaps might more
We all struck out.  To escape his terrible flailings, I seized hold of my
Whale --no.  Very good, then; good bye now, and I'll call again in a
Whale can pass it without immediate death.  But the truth of the Matter is,
What a hold they have, too!  I wonder, Flask, whether the world is anchored
What are you talking about, then?  Not one ship in a hundred carries rods,
What!  hope to wrest this old man's living power from his own living hands?
When the last nail was driven, and the lid duly planed and fitted, he
When the vast body had at last been stripped of its fathom-deep enfoldings,
White Whale, on the White Whale's own
White Whale?  What whale?  The White Whale --a Sperm Whale --Moby Dick,
With a wild whimsiness, he now used his coffin for a sea-chest; and emptying
Wrapped, for that interval, in darkness myself, I but the better saw the
Yet so it is.  By some, ambergris is supposed to be the cause, and by others
You would have almost thought they were pulling down the cursed Bastile, such
[Sudden, repeated flashes of lightning; the nine flames leap lengthwise to
a Lying-in Hospital.  I partly surmise also, that this wicked charge against
a bouncing great whale, with a milky-white head and hump, all crows' feet and
a bunch of posies, will ye, Bouton-de-Rose?  What in the devil's name do you
a charmed circle of everlasting December, bid defiance to all pursuit from
a critical glance at the ivory limbs of the two crippled captains.  But, at his
a dead comrade from the field.  extending it upon the forecastle deck, he now
a devil of a boat's crew for a pull on a whale-line); seeing all this, I say,
a double horizon, as it were.  I will wager something now, whispered Stubb
a fish is technically fast when it bears a waif, or any other recognised
a flea --such portly terms might justly be deemed unwarrantably grandiloquent.
a grandeur, and a woe.  But from the same point, take mankind in mass, and
a huzzar's surcoat.  Hast seen the White Whale?  See you this?  and
a jackal for ye!  I well know that these Crappoes of Frenchmen are but poor
a life-buoy of it.  It's like turning an old coat; going to bring the flesh on
a nasty night, lad.
a piece of sail-cloth being rolled up for a pillow, Queequeg now entreated to
a reckless, rollicking rate, that no prudent underwriter would insure them
a red cotton velvet vest with watch-seals at his side.  To this gentleman,
a ruthless crew and every hour passed by ruthless hands, and through the
a sagacious lawyer like Prynne.  But is the Queen a mermaid, to be presented
a shoal of whales, which had led them some four or five miles from the ship;
a shocking bad wound, began the whale-surgeon; and, taking my advice,
a spacious roundabout, that hung round him in festoons of blue pilot-cloth;
a subsequent gentleman re-harpooned her, the lady then became that subsequent
a tasting cruise to the remote waters of Japan.  That ship --well called the
a-calling with his horn for all legs, true or false, as brewery-men go round
abhorring, landed world, is more oblivious than death.  Come hither!  put up
ability at any time to take it alongside, as well as their intention so to
aboard, and mayhap he'll believe you, if he won't me; and so I'll get out of
about the size of the iron part of a hoe.  Edgewise moved along the oily deck,
about; and the hollow hull echoed under foot, as if you were treading over
above the snow-line.  Oh, ye frozen heavens!  look down here.  Ye did beget
accomplished, and with such liveliness of expertness in him, too; all this
according to its vicissitudes.  But as he was now bringing the ship as near
according to my careful calculation, I say, a Sperm Whale of the largest
account the whale immortal in his species, however perishable in his
accounted bits of ivory; heads he deemed but top-blocks; men themselves he
ache; my whole beaten brain seems as beheaded, and rolling on some stunning
across here. --Rig-a-dig, dig, dig!  huzza!  Oh for a game cock now to sit upon
acts of the gladness, and the one long, and as yet uncatastrophied fifth act
admeasurement of the whale.
admeasurements.  These admeasurements I now propose to set before you.  But
admirable brevity of it, which necessitates a vast volume of commentaries to
adrift from the spars, and went eddying away to leeward, like the feathers
adult generations must be contemporary.  And what that is, we may soon gain
advance in magnitude upon those of all previous geological periods; may it
advanced to him.  Ahab stood before him, and was lightly unwinding some thirty
advancing.  Hands off from that holiness!  Where sayest thou Pip was, boy?
advancing.  How was it?  It seemed that somewhat late on the afternoon of the
advice, and concluded with a peremptory command, Stick to the boat, Pip, or
afar.  Now, amid the green, life-restless loom of that Arsacidean wood, the
affair.
affords a most congenial theme whereon to enlarge, amplify, and generally
aft --the shivered remnants of the jib and fore and main-top-sails were cut
after completely filling her hold with oil, does not, perhaps, consume fifty
after the second iron, to toss it overboard --down comes the tail like a Lima
afterwards learned, the bachelor had met with the most surprising success;
afterwards took the fish; ergo, the aforesaid articles were theirs.  A common
again, without a lesson to me.  Oh, trebly hooped and welded hip of power!
again.  Issuing from the cabin, Stubb now called his boat's crew, and pulled
again.  It was under very similar circumstances to the first performance; but
again.  Now, then, Pip, we'll talk this over; I do suck most wondrous
again. --Oh Mary!  Mary! --boy!  boy!  boy! --But if I wake thee not to death, old
again; what does that mean?  Hark!  he's muttering --voice like an old
again?  Twice.  But could not fasten?  Didn't want to try to: ain't one
against a blue-veined neck, the pure-watered diamond drop will healthful
against his chest, he breasted it overboard with him, so as to become
against my principles to drink with the man I've diddled.  In fact, tell him
against the bulwarks -- Man the boat!  Which way heading?  Good God!  cried
against the door.  On this level, Ahab's hammock swings within; his head
against whalemen, and which, in the estimation of some already biased minds,
ages, you rascal.  What became of the White Whale?  now cried Ahab, who
ago --not a good life-time --the census of the buffalo in Illinois exceeded the
ago is it since you said the very contrary?  Didn't you once say that whatever
ahab?  ahab seized a loaded musket from the rack (forming part of most
ahead; and when she profoundly settled by the stern, he turned behind, and
air; and I'm down in the whole world's books.  I am so rich, I could have
akin to them in general respects, to justify their taking ranks as Cetacean
all blending with it for a time.  I have it, I have it, cried Stubb, with
all cases man must eventually lower, or at least shift, his conceit of
all conspired, so far as in them lay, to muffle up the knowledge of this
all controllable by the occupant or occupants, -- a mast, an oar, a nine-inch
all day upon smooth, slow heaving swells; seated in his boat, light as a
all else in him thinned, and his cheek-bones grew sharper, his eyes,
all hum of human weal or woe; in these most candid and impartial seas; where
all inquiring heads at last.  Up with it!  So.  The log was heaved.  The
all misery in others that is not mad.  Thou should'st go mad, blacksmith;
all mortals, some dying men are the most tyrannical; and certainly, since they
all my pains to go for nothing with that coffin?  And now I'm ordered to make
all the indifferent promptitude of his character, proceeded into the
all the more wonderful, for that while cruising in the same seas numerous
all the shrubs, and ferns, and grasses; the message-carrying air; all
all their pains seemed naught.  Though lifted to the very top of the cranes,
all these seemed the strange calm things preluding some riotous and desperate
all this, I will not admit that of all animals the whale alone should have
all waned at last with the pallidness aloft; and once more the Pequod and
all!  To sailors, oaths are household words; they will swear in the trance
all-contributed and all-receptive ocean alluringly spread forth his whole
all-quickening sun, that only calls forth life, but gives it not again.  Yet
all-ramifying heartlessness; --yet was it oddly dashed at times, with an old,
all.  And equally fallacious seems the conceit, that because the so-called
almost any seams and dents; never mind how hard the metal, blacksmith?
almost completely extinct; the subsequent relics discovered in what are
almost forgot the little oval slate, smoothed ivory, where he figures up the
almost have thought he was digging a cellar there in the sea; and when at
almost hourly used to it, like whalemen --to clamber up a ship's side from a
almost invariably in the fishery, a coward, so called, is marked with the same
almost seemed as if far over from the deep green convent valleys of the
aloft there, wheels through toil and trouble; and so, alow here, does jolly
aloft, few words were heard from the enchanted crew; who in one thick
alone here upon an open sea, with two oceans and a whole continent between
along the bulwarks, and with buckets of water and rags restore them to their
alongside of it.  Yet are there those who will still do it; notwithstanding
alongside of the Pequod.
alongside.  Upon this the captain started, and eagerly desired to know more.
alongside; and this second whale seemed even more of a nosegay than the
aloud, Thou art a full ship and homeward bound, thou sayest; well, then,
altar.  Blast the boat!  let it go!  cried Stubb at this instant, as a
altitude of the final rib.  How now!  they shouted; Dar'st thou measure
always done; but cutting up the fresh blubber in small bits, thrust it
always says he's queer; says nothing but that one sufficient little word
always what least allures.  He's all a magnet!  How long since thou saw'st him
am I in the dark side of earth, that its other side, the theoretic bright one,
ambergris affair Stubb's after-oarsman chanced so to sprain his hand, as
ambergris, certain hard, round, bony plates, which at first Stubb thought
ambergris, worth a gold guinea an ounce to any druggist.  Some six handfuls
among these latter was a great Sperm Whale, which, after an unusually long
an abounding, affectionate, friendly, loving feeling did this avocation beget;
an albatross, which sometimes are cast to the winds when that storm-tossed
an archbishoprick, what a lad for a Pope were this mincer!
an immortality-preserver!  I'll think of that.  But no.  So far gone
an ingenious and very handy mechanical contrivance peculiar to the Pequod,
an oil-butt, lashed down to the floor for a centrepiece.  In the forecastle,
an opportunity to dissect him in miniature.  In a ship I belonged to, a small
anchor, or the crotch of an apple tree), and then giving the word, held
ancient tongues had been really spoken in their hearing by some lofty
and Ahab, --aye, man, and all of us, --were in no more danger then, in my poor
and Danes; from whom they derived many terms still extant in the fishery;
and I'm the professor of musical glasses --tap, tap! ( Ahab to himself.)
and Platonic application; and, furthermore, I compiled supplementary tables
and Stubb returned to the Frenchman.  He now perceived that the Guernsey-man,
and a thing not to be rigged and shipped in any other vessel at a moment's
and all aglow, as bridegrooms new-leaped from out the daintiest Holland.  Now,
and also from the thicker portions of his flukes.  It is tough with congealed
and angular log attached hung, long untouched, just beneath the railing of
and begat him curly-headed glories.  Now, when with royal Tranquo I visited
and biggest I ever saw, sir, in my life --I resolved to capture him, spite of
and blow.  While still warm, the oil, like hot punch, is received into the
and body, lungs and life, old Ahab is bound.  And that ye may know to what
and bye we scrambled down, so sober, that we had to pass the flip again,
and cheese of hundreds of thousands of broken-backed laborers (all sure of
and deeper, disturbing the slumbers of the huge ground-tier butts; and from
and destroy thee!  As the frantic old man thus spoke and thus trampled with
and did some service; how much does not appear.  But this is not all.  In 0084
and didn't know him then; but not to another one.  No more White Whales for
and doom, -- that's fair for Moby Dick.  It's a fair wind that's only fair for
and elucidated by Lord Ellenborough in the above cited case; these two laws
and feel thy heaviest hammer between my eyes.  Answer!  Can'st thou smoothe
and following it back, I emerged from the opening where I entered.  I saw no
and for long hours silently guided the way of this fire-ship on the sea.
and fro I paced before this skeleton --brushed the vines aside --broke through
and fro, not only had gathered no moss; but what is more, had rubbed off
and from the hearts of infinite Pacifics, the thousand mermaids sing to them
and gills of good gin and good cheer.  At the time, I devoted three days to
and goes to snapping furiously at my fast-line.  Aye, I see! --wanted to part
and hailing the pequod to give notice of his intentions, at once proceeded to
and hark ye, my conscience is in this ship's keel. --On deck!  Captain
and he heaved it up in small tacks, d'ye see.  No possible way for him to
and invoking brow, with his last dying motions.  He too worships fire; most
and jails, and walks fast crossing grave-yards, and would rather talk of
and lances, and jealously watching his every sooty movement, as he toiled.
and line.  The ship was sailing plungingly; astern the billows rolled in
and lurches about.  Meanwhile, the spade-man stands on the sheet itself,
and mainmast; but in the multiplicity of other things requiring narration it
and men, and Ifs eternally.  Where lies the final harbor, whence we unmoor no
and on sea!  Both were silent again, as one man.  The grey dawn came on, and
and one empty arm of this jacket streamed behind him like the broidered arm of
and pick him up; though, indeed, such considerations towards oarsmen
and potentates of fire, have to do or not with earthly Ahab, yet, in this
and quarter joes.  what then should there be in this doubloon of the Equator
and set; she heads her course.  Stern all!  Oh Moby Dick, I clutch thy heart
and skin together? --And would I be a murderer, then, if --and slowly,
and so floated an unappropriated corpse.  It may well be conceived, what an
and stir nothing, but lash everything.  The wind rises, but it has not got
and that done, unofficially gave him much wholesome advice.  The substance
and that must be because they use them mercifully, as a tender-hearted old
and the Vineyard had in large fleets pursued that Leviathan, but only in the
and the ancient naturalists generally.  For Pliny tells us of whales that
and the bones become dust dry in the sun, then the skeleton was carefully
and the hard pressed forge shooting up its intense straight flame, the Parsee
and the houseless, familyless old man staggered off a vagabond in crape; his
and the sound of the hickory pole, both hollowly ringing along every plank.
and then pairs of them would drop their work, and run up to the mast-head to
and there adhering to the blanket of blubber, and often participating to a
and there they were.  Yet, as previously hinted, this omnitooled,
and there's a great cry for life-boats.  And here's the heron's leg!  long and
and think to be happy for aye, when pop comes Libra, or the Scales --happiness
and throughout the whole universe, not excluding its suburbs.  Such, and so
and turns him to it, --how slowly, but how steadfastly, his homage-rendering
and twenty hours on the stretch, they were engaged in the boats, steadily
and two!  Let's make a General of him!  Ho, where's his harpoon?  Lay it
and vials, though --to the copper cooler at the try-works, and replenishes
and viciously spat round her on all sides; then the rushing Pequod, freighted
and waif-poles in the last chapter but one, necessitates some account of the
and walls, came up to her, not unsweetly, in her nursery; and so, to stout
and weal or woe, feels then uncompromised, indifferent as his God.  For the
and what is yet more, their fat old fashions, touching plenty to eat and
and which is two thirds of this earth.  So, therefore, that mortal man who
and while they were yet in swift chase to windward, the white hump and head of
and whoever raises a certain whale, this round thing belongs to him.  So,
and, I may say, an extremely gentlemanlike sort of business thou art in here,
angels in paradise, each with his hands in a jar of spermaceti.  Now, while
anomalously did its duty.  What that was, whether essence of quicksilver, or a
anomaly of the most solid masonry joining with oak and hemp in constituting
another chance at you shortly, that's all.  No, thank ye, Bunger, said the
another lonely castaway, though the loftiest and the brightest.  Now, in calm
answer to any known species of the present time, they are yet sufficiently
anvil.  Look ye, blacksmith, these are the gathered nail-stubbs of the steel
any foulness, it still preserved its Quito glow.  Nor, though placed amongst
any it had.  He lay without moving a few minutes, then told one to go to his
any more than he would a riotous lad at Yale or Harvard.  They soon relinquish
any other race.  For blacks, the year's calendar should show naught but three
any serious leakage in the precious cargo.
anybody else, never mind how foolish?  Here!  cried Starbuck, seizing
anywhere; if she is, she swings with an uncommon long cable, though.  There,
apart.  But, spite of all this, I could see no compass before me to steer by;
appearances lusty, yet Ahab did not deem it entirely trustworthy.  And,
appeared from his cabin.  He was a small and dark, but rather delicate looking
apprise Captain Ahab of the circumstance.  Ere knocking at his state-room, he
approach, nevertheless every sunrise found the doubloon where the sunset left
archbishop of Savesoul's income of 100,000 pounds seized from the scant bread
are considerations which render even this circumstance of little or no account
are none; the horizon floats; and this nakedness of unrelieved radiance is
are now aggregated into vast but widely separated, unfrequent armies.  That is
are only beat with water-lilies, will ye do one little errand for me?  Seek
are used for beams whereon to lay foot-path bridges over small streams.  In
arithmetic, I'll try my hand at raising a meaning out of these queer
arm (like two sword-fish blades) cried out in his walrus way, Aye, aye,
arm off, did he?  asked Ahab, now sliding down from the capstan, and resting
arm slowly fell; for a moment he almost seemed to stagger.  Standing behind
arm towards the East, and taking a rueful sight along it, as if it had been a
arm-holes at the other end, he lengthwise slips himself bodily into it.  The
aromatic canoes; and all these distributed among whatever natural wonders,
around him, it was plain that the whale alongside must be what the fishermen
arrange it easily.  Bring it up; there's nothing else for it, said
art but my fiery father; my sweet mother, I know not.  Oh, cruel!  what hast
as I should conceive a royal cutlet from the thigh of Louis le Gros might
as an opposing argument in this matter.  Natural as it is to be somewhat
as half a glimpse of that unaccountable cone, -- longer than a Kentuckian is
as his ancestors in Pliny's time.  And if ever I go where Pliny is, I, a
as the insufferable splendors of God's throne.  Well that Ahab's quadrant
as the soundest advice ever is.  Now, in general, Stick to the boat, is
as though now for the first time beginning to interpret for himself in some
ascending from where the real jet had issued, I marvelled that the king
aside.
asleep, Mr Stubb; go thou down, and wake him, and tell him.  I must see to
astern?  Upon this every soul was confounded; for the phenomenon just then
astrological-looking instrument placed to his eye, he remained in that posture
at a dollar an inch; in such a comparison an irresistible argument would seem
at a piece of gold, which did I have it now on Negro Hill or in Corlaer's
at all.  They soak water, they do; and of
at its every pore; and the studded iron-bound cask followed the sailor to the
at last into simple child's play.
at last the twelve rods were made, Ahab tried them, one by one, by spiralling
at last to that celestial thought, which, to reason, is absurd and frantic;
at last upon the great South Sea; were it not for other things, I could have
at last!  Such were the sounds that now came hurtling from out the old man's
at length remain but one little heap of ashes!  Aye, cried Stubb, but
at melodious even-tide, with his gay ha-ha!  had turned the round horizon into
at the beginning, and is at the middle when midway, and comes to an end at
at the bottom of a well.  And a well, or an ice-house, it somehow proved to
at the masonry of the try-works, from which the huge pots had been removed.
at your coat collar.  Don't you see, then, that for these extra risks the
attainable felicity; not placing it anywhere in the intellect or the fancy;
awake.
away from it in a straight line, not a little resembled the hull of a great
away we sail to fight some other world, and go through young life's old
away, Queequeg, to every one's consternation, commanded that the thing should
away, as if toil were life itself, and the heavy beating of his hammer the
away.  The great hatch is scrubbed and placed upon the try-works, completely
awestruck by the aspect of their commander, the seamen clustered together on
aye --they were mine -- my irons, cried Ahab, exultingly -- but on!  Give me a
babe; living without premeditated reference to this world or the next.  You
back the main-yard; up Burtons, and break out in the main-hold.  It were
back was turned upon him; and the whale was winged.  In three minutes, a
bade him hold it upright, without its touching the deck.  Then, with the
bag and bring out his little god, Yojo.  Then crossing his arms on his breast
banners waving, are in luxuriant profusion stamped; so that the precious gold
bannisters.  But this awkwardness only lasted a minute, because the strange
baptismal blood.  Now, mustering the spare poles from below, and selecting one
barrels of sperm; above which, in her top-mast cross-trees, you saw slender
basement of his dwelling, but with a separate entrance to it; so that always
be ashes.  Take the homage of these poor eyes, and shutter-hands.  I would
be finally killed and captured by another vessel; and herein are indirectly
be it, then.  Born in throes, 't is fit that man should live in pains and die
be lifted into his final bed, that he might make trial of its comforts, if
be luridly illumined by strange wild fires, that fictitiously showed him off
be more hideous than a caged tiger, then.  I could not endure the sight;
be sensible, Flask?  it's easy to be sensible; why don't ye, then?  any man
be the invaluable memoirs of some Amsterdam cooper in the fishery, as every
be, thou leapest out of darkness; but I am darkness leaping out of light,
bearing on the other hand similar affinities to the annihilated antichronical
beautiful object to behold.  As its name imports, it is of an exceedingly
beauty and brilliancy of the ocean's skin, one forgets the tiger heart that
because of all this, the lower parts of a ship's
become a complete calm; so that whether or no, the Pequod was now fairly
beef, and the bread, and the can, and the joke; and were not soon weary
been all the time standing near them, with nothing specific visible, to
been annually slain on the nor' west coast by the Americans alone; yet there
been at all sparing of historical whale research, when it has seemed needed.
been disproved, that the vocation of whaling is throughout a slatternly,
been found at the base of the Alps, in Lombardy, in France, in England, in
been watching all of these interpreters --myself included --and look now, he
been woven into the shrouds and the cordage.  While this pallidness was burning
befell myself.
before he wheeled out of a former equinox at Aries!  From storm to storm!  So
before his passive eyes; and the miser-merman, Wisdom, revealed his hoarded
before, catch somewhat of the rushing breeze, and joyfully feel our bagging
began to credit the old Paracelsan superstition that sperm is of rare virtue
begging him to take the case of those unfortunate
begin welding the twelve into one, when Ahab stayed his hand, and said he
beginning, hence callest thyself unbegun.  I know that of me, which thou
begrimed, blistered old blacksmith, had not removed his portable forge to
beheaded was killed) his great padded surtout becomes the property of his
beheld who were bystanders when Zoroaster died.  For whatever is truly
beheld with what seemed redoubled supernaturalness in their pallor.  The
beheld, must ever after be the sea of his adoption.  It rolls the midmost
behoves me now to unbutton him still further, and untagging the points of his
being buried in his hammock, according to the usual sea-custom, tossed like
believe it did, sir; does the ferrule stand, sir?  Well enough.  But art
belike of the tallow-vats, dairy-rooms, butteries, and cheeseries in his
bend down our eyes, the dark vale shows her mouldy soil; but if we lift them,
beneath the great equator, and named after it; and it had been cast midway
beneath the skin of the adult whale; nevertheless, I have been blessed with
beneath, till the snaky flames darted, curling, out of the doors to catch
beneath; like those fabled undulations of the Ephesian sod over the buried
benevolently towed away at his whale the other way, ostentatiously slacking
berth an Aladdin's lamp, and lays him down in it; so that in the pitchiest
besides, it was an anti-scorbutic; in short, the bread contained the only
besooted all the bulwarks; the mariners go about suffused with unctuousness;
better ( sneezes).  Halloa, this bone dust is ( sneezes)-- why it's
between two of twelve sitting-rooms all in a ring.  Book!  you lie there; the
beware of thyself, old man.  He waxes brave, but nevertheless obeys; most
bewildered feeling, as of death, came over me.  Convulsively my hands grasped
beyond thee, thou clear spirit, to whom all thy eternity is but time, all
big generous hands they are, to be sure.  These are your iron fists, hey?
big vice of wood, the carpenter symmetrically supplies the constellation.  A
billows are my foster-brothers!
billows have still rolled on speechless and unspoken to, as stars that shine
binnacle
binnacle, with his glance fastened on the pointed needle in the compass, that
birch canoe; and so sociably mixing with the soft waves themselves, that
bird is on the wing.  The three corresponding new sails were now bent and
birth-mark in the brow of man, is but the stamp of sorrow in the signers.
bit of steel Ahab can make one of his own, that will point as true as any.
black tragedy of the melancholy ship, and mocked it!
black, glossy back, and far out upon the
blackberrying.  Cook!  ho, cook!  and cook us!  Jenny!  hey, hey, hey, hey,
blacksmith eyed the razors as though he would fain not use them.  Take them,
blacksmith was about giving the barbs their final heat, prior to tempering
blasted whales in general.  The Pequod had now swept so nigh to the stranger,
blasting rocks.  I have forgotten to say that there were found in this
blessed calms would last.  But the mingled, mingling threads of life are woven
blind as a bat --both eyes out --all befogged and bedeadened with black foam
blinding palpableness must have been the cause.  Thrusting his head half way
blotted out of existence.  When I stand among these mighty Leviathan skeletons,
blubber, now called scraps or fritters, still contains considerable of its
blubber-hook, now clean and dry, was still attached to the end.  This was
blue day; the spangled sea calm and cool, and flatly stretching away, all
blunted needle endwise on the top of it, and less strongly hammered that,
boarded her once at midnight somewhere off the Patagonian coast, and drank
boat --the swiftest keeled of all --seemed to have succeeded in fastening --at
boat on the open sea; for the great swells now lift the boat high up towards
boat that had killed it lay by its side all night; and that boat was Ahab's.
boat's bottom at the stern, and left it again, all dripping through like a
boat, which, d'ye see, was gunwale and gunwale with mine, then; and snatching
boats; and though she had thus continued doing till day light; yet not the
body in it.  They said it was bull-beef; others, that it was dromedary beef;
body may get loose from the ship by reason of a violent storm; and drifting
boiler, and filled it; that the steward had plugged his spare coffee-pot and
bolts and the verdigris of copper spikes, yet, untouchable and immaculate to
bones and skeletons, have within thirty years past, at various intervals,
bones hast builded thy separate throne somewhere in the heart of these
bones of murderers.  Quick!  forge me the harpoon.  And forge me first, twelve
bones stuck into a pair of old trowsers, and two more poked into the sleeves
bore down upon the turkish frigates, and folded them in conflagrations.  The
bosom of his frock. --Ahab comes slowly from the cabin-gangway, and hears Pip
bosom!  Despatch!  and get these traps out of sight.  He goes aft.  That was
both feet.  Out of this revelation, part by part, at last came out the four
both hands on Perth's shoulders; look ye here -- here --can ye smoothe out a
both useful and capricious.  The one grand stage where he enacted all his
bottom, as if to yield him his pillow, though in sooth but a hard one.  And
bound to any haven ahead as rushing from all havens astern.  A stark,
bowels for a laugh?  And look ye, Mr. Starbuck --but it's too dark to look.
bowels.  I confess, that since Jonah, few whalemen have penetrated very far
bowl-like cavity in his skull, but which bore not the slightest scarry trace,
bowlines; and we ignorantly furled the skirts of our jackets into
boy; Ahab's cabin shall be Pip's home henceforth, while Ahab lives.  Thou
boyhood's thoughtless faith, adolescence' doubt (the common doom), then
braces!  Up helm! --square in!  In an instant the yards swung round; and as
brag with.  By heavens!  I'll get a crucible, and into it, and dissolve
braided and woven round the socket of the harpoon; the pole was then driven
brain, if he had ever had one, must have early oozed along into the muscles of
breakers of the
breakers of the milky way.  He added, that he shuddered at the thought of
breath he extinguished the flame.  As in the hurricane that sweeps the plain,
breeze --however reluctantly and gloomily, --than he mechanically went below to
brick and mortar, some ten feet by eight square, and five in height.  The
bright coin came from a country planted in the middle of the world, and
bristling shark-skin apron, about mid-day, Perth was standing between his
brittle, odorless substance, used for mouth-pieces to pipes, for beads and
broken the stems of their pipes almost short off at the bowl, were vigorously
brought by the lee!  look not too long in the face of the fire, O man!  Never
brought them all into so unsavory and unprofitable a pickle.  Sounding him
brow.  Come along, will ye (merry's the play); a full ship and
bubbling white water; and after that nothing more; whence it was concluded
bulk.  To produce a mighty book, you must choose a
bulwarks, and with a capacious tub beneath it, into which the minced pieces
burglar into his family's heart.  It was the Bottle Conjuror!  Upon the opening
burglar slid into his happy home, and robbed them all of everything.  And
burly, good-natured, fine-looking man, of sixty or thereabouts, dressed in
burning in that sulphurous air, like three gigantic wax tapers before an
burning martyr, or a self-consuming misanthrope, once ignited, the whale
burst, and all life fled from the smitten hull.  Bad news; she brings bad
bursting hatches; and now, in glad holiday apparel, was joyously, though
busily filing the ivory joist for the leg, which joist is firmly fixed in the
business of preparing the sperm whale for the try-works.  First comes
but Fast-Fish, whereof possession is the whole of the law?  What to the
but I make a bandbox for Queequeg, and he wont put his head into it.  Are
but a Fast-Fish?  And concerning all these, is not Possession the whole of
but a Fast-Fish?  What to that apostolic lancer, Brother Jonathan, is Texas
but a tossed shuttle-cock to the blast, it is by no means uncommon to see
but as no cask of sufficient lightness could be found, and as in the feverish
but base little Pip, he died a coward; died all a'shiver; --out upon Pip!
but happily, for that time, escaped close contact with the whale; and
but how like all creation it smells!  Now in order to hold direct
but i do not know, for certain, how that was.  they had dumplings too; small,
but no hand rose to seize it, and the sun having long beat upon this cask
but not so the English whaler.  Hence, in the English, this thing of whaling
but scorches him, as these old eyes are even now scorched with thy light, O
but snow-caps.  Let me see.  Nail down the lid; caulk the seams; pay over
but still sadly to me.  I will quit it, lest Truth shake me falsely.  There
but substantial, symmetrically globular, and indestructible dumplings.  I
but suddenly finding his path made plain to him by elbowed lances of fire.
but the pagan harpooneers remained
but the sea that had stove its bottom had caused the loose leather sheath to
but with vigorous pleasure, to the stout ringing of her young-armed old
but you will never pound into me what you were just now saying.  And how long
butter in April.  He goes and hunts for his oil, so as to be sure of its
by a large, sloping, battened hatchway.  Removing this hatch we expose the
by chopping up and trying out these three masts of ours, than he'll get from
by hannibal, and by all the successive monarchs of the East --if they still
by it, as one river will flow into and then along with another, without at
by night, wondering whose it was to be at last, and whether he would ever
by the Lord, I wont pick you up if you jump; mind that.  We can't afford
by the changed character of the withdrawn water, the mariners readily detect
by warp and woof: calms crossed by storms, a storm for every calm.  There is
bye.
cabalistics, and the keystone sun entering the equinoctial point at Libra.
cable, a telegraph wire, or a strand of cobweb, it is all the same.  Likewise
cachalot, some philosophers of the forecastle have concluded that this
calculate over again; I think I didn't carry a small figure, sir.  Look ye,
calendar, and Bowditch's navigator, and Daboll's arithmetic go.  Signs and
call a blasted whale, that is, a whale that has died unmolested on the sea,
call me an empty ship, and outward-bound.  So go thy ways, and I will mine.
called it) to avoid the pest; but still, could not help yelling out his
called ruin.  He had been an artisan of famed excellence, and with plenty to
called the Tertiary formations seem the connecting, or at any rate
called, is a term properly belonging to right whalemen, but sometimes
came into possession?  But often possession is the whole of the law.  What are
can at last resort to their Polar citadels, and diving under the ultimate
can follow, thou must still appear to me, to pilot me still? --Was it not so?
can shrink, d'ye see; and a leg that never can run.  Where did'st thou see
can'st thou scorch a scar.  Well, well; no more.  Thy shrunk voice sounds
can't withstand thee, then, old man.  Not reasoning; not remonstrance; not
candles --that's the good promise we saw.  At that moment Starbuck caught
cannot solve itself.  Methinks now this coined sun wears a ruddy face; but
cannot understand how it is, that while the Egyptian mummies that were buried
capitals.  Give me a condor's quill!  Give me Vesuvius' crater for an inkstand!
capstan head.  With his ivory arm frankly thrust forth in welcome, the other
capstan, deliver lectures on the anatomy of the Cetacea; and by help of the
captain advanced, and Ahab, putting out his ivory leg, and crossing the ivory
captain snapped his fingers in the plaintiffs' teeth, and assured them that by
captain's and officers' staterooms.  Even the cabin table itself had been
captain's pantaloons pockets, and those he reserved to thrust his hands into,
captain, observing at a glance how affairs stood, cried out, I see, I see!
captain; he never drinks it; it's a sort of fits to him; fresh water
captains in themselves impersonated the whole striking contrast of the scene.
capture.  But may it not be, that while the whales of the present hour are an
captured by anybody on the coast of that land, the King, as Honorary Grand
caput, et regina caudam.  Bracton, l 3.  c. 3.  Latin from the books of the
cards into these old hands of mine; swears that I must play them, and no
careful bravery that!  murmured Ahab, as Starbuck disappeared.  What's that
carefully, Stubb further perceived that the Guernsey-man had not the
carpenter for a screw-driver, all they had to do was to open that part of
carpenter of the Pequod was singularly efficient in those thousand nameless
carpenter.  And when that functionary appeared before him, he bade him
carpenter; --or would'st thou rather work in clay?  Sir? --Clay?  clay, sir?
carry to each mast, is intended to conduct it into the water.  But as this
carved Roman slave, while that wild cry remained within hearing.  The
case, however, where the reader is flooded with whole pipes, barrels, quarts,
cask containing coins of Captain Noah, with copies of the posted placards,
casks with sea-water; which afterwards, at varying intervals, is removed by
casks, but those leaky casks are in a leaky ship; and that's a far worse
cattle, should be put to this leviathan, to make him at all budge to any
caught belongs to the King and Queen, because of its superior excellence.
caw!  Ain't I a crow?  And where's the scare-crow?  There he stands; two
ceiling a sculptured and painted planisphere, abounding in centaurs,
cemeteries, in the Greenland dock, a savor is given forth somewhat similar to
census of men now in London, and though at the present day not one horn or
centrally fixed on the nailed doubloon; impatient for the order to point the
century and more, therefore at any one period of time, several distinct
cerebellum; and sixpence for the unrivalled view from his forehead.  The
certain Nantucket-born
certain canonic teachings, that while some natural enjoyments here shall have
certain juncture of this post-mortemizing of the whale; and had you strolled
certainly gave forth no very pleasant savor.  But all this is quite different
chalking Queequeg's person as he shifted the rule.  Ah!  poor fellow!  he'll
chance the ship itself at last rescued him; but from that hour the little
chance, then, said the Englishman, good-humoredly.  Well, this old
chapter with the above appeal, but cannot, owing to my anxiety to repel a
chapter; and now I'll read it off, straight out of the book.  Come, Almanack!
charcoal.  Well, well; I heard Ahab mutter, "Here some one thrusts these
charge often made
chase of a whale in the Northern seas; and when indeed they (the plaintiffs)
cheer of these English whalers is matter for historical research.  Nor have I
cheerful-looking church, planted in a grove.  But one night, under cover of
cheese consumed, seems amazing.  I impute it, though, to their naturally
chickens, Perth?  they are always flying in thy wake; birds of good omen,
chief
circle the above hinted casualty --remaining, as it did, moodily unaccounted
circle, all waiting to be served; holding boat-spades, pike-heads, harpoons,
cistern in the whale's huge head; not the prodigy of his unhinged lower jaw;
civilized; that while a sick, civilized man may be six months convalescing,
clean shaved rods of right-whale bone, and cross-beams of sperm whale ivory,
clearest-grained stuff might be secured.  This done, the carpenter received
clenched fist.  Heading East at this hour in the morning, and the sun
clergy --am a strict total abstinence man; I never drink-- Water!  cried the
clinging to the side, that ley quickly exterminates it.  Hands go diligently
clumsily practicable, was not a thing to be passed over by superstitious
cluster stood on the forecastle, all their eyes gleaming in that pale
co-laborers' hands in it, mistaking their hands for the gentle globules.  Such
coasts; the moot point is, whether Leviathan can long endure so wide a chase,
coat; mayhap, his watch --he's so cursed anxious to get it back.  Who ever
cocked hats; the cocks form gable-end eave-troughs, Flask.  No more
cocoa-nut tree, whose plumage-like, tufted droopings seemed his verdant jet.
coffin for Queequeg; but they've set me now to turning it into something
coffin knock against the churchyard gate, going in?  Faith, sir, I've--
coffin!  cried Starbuck, starting.  Rather queer, that, I should say, said
coffin, and no more. --Mr. Stubb, Mr. Flask, come forward with me.  He goes
coffin.  Then, if the hull go down, there'll be thirty lively fellows all
coffins and hearses.  We work by the month, or by the job, or by the profit;
coffins?  Thou art as unprincipled as the gods, and as much of a
coil themselves away there for a nap.  While employed in polishing them --one
collecting old beer barrels, to fill 'em up again.  What a leg this is!  It
college of Santa Claus and St.  Pott's, to whom I handed the work for
come aboard, old hearty, come along.  I'll soon take that black from your
comes not far behind the united royal houses of the Tudors and Bourbons, in
comes to read,
command to the steersman (it was, as ever, something about his not steering
commanded to do Queequeg's bidding, whatever it might include.  There was some
commanded to proceed at once to the forging of whatever iron contrivances
commenced an excavation in the body, a little behind the side fin.  You would
communication with the people on deck, he had to pull round the bows to the
companions swim around her with every token of concern, sometimes lingering
company with her, crying and sobbing with their human sort of wail.  But this
compared with the living body.  Of this seventy-two feet, his skull and jaw
compasses --that's all.  Thou hast before now heard of such a thing, I take
comprehensiveness of sweep, as if to include the whole circle of the
comprised many minor contingencies, all partaking of this one grand feature.
comprised some twenty feet, leaving some fifty feet of plain back-bone.
comrades quit him.  But strike a member of the harem school, and her
conceals a remorseless fang.  These are the times, when in his whale-boat the
concerning Ahab, always had it remained a mystery to some, why it was, that
conclude so, if we are to credit the accounts of such gentlemen as Pliny,
concluded, then the crew themselves proceed to their own ablutions; shift
concreted into lumps, here and there rolling about in the liquid part.  It
condemned cell.  And as for the other whale, why, I'll agree to get more oil
conductor must descend to considerable depth, that its end may avoid all
confess, that once I stole behind the foremast to try it.  It tasted something
confounded cobbling, and then we stash it if we can.  hem!  i'll do the job,
conscience.  But look ye, the only real owner of anything is its commander;
conscious of something fatally wrong.  The jaw-bone tiller smote my side,
considerable degree in its unctuousness.  It is a most refreshing, convivial,
considerably outweigh the combined population of a whole village of one
considering these ribs, I could not but be struck anew with the circumstance,
consists in mincing the horse-pieces of blubber for the pots; an operation
constable by name, a certain sir clifford constable has in his possession the
contact with the hull; and as moreover, if kept constantly towing there, it
contemporary and hereditary.  But most humble though he was, and far from
continued the one-armed commander, I do not know; but in biting the line, it
cook, fire the works.  This was an easy thing, for the carpenter had been
copied verbatim from my right arm, where I had them tattooed; as in my wild
copy of Blackstone under his arm; and laying it upon the whale's head, he
corpusants have mercy on us all, cried Stubb, again.  At the base of the
could go hang myself.  Any way, for the present, I'll quit Pip's vicinity.
could not possibly fly his howlings; all comfort, sleep itself, inestimable
course get rheumatic, and have to be doctored ( sneezes) with washes and
course of this business, but which I feel it to be very puzzling adequately
course to be changed accordingly.  The yards were hard up; and once more the
course; and all round the hoops, rap, rap, go as many hammers as can play
coward, a coward!  Tell them he jumped from a whale-boat!  I'd never beat my
crack fellows all, and capital from boot heels to hat-band.  But why was it,
crew instantly ran to the braces --though not a sail was left aloft.  For the
crew: Furl the t'gallant-sails and close-reef the top-sails, fore and aft;
cried Ahab, impetuously, and tossing about the oars near him -- Stand by to
cried Ahab; let's have fair play here, though we be the weaker side.  Yet
cried Bunger,  stoopingly walking round Ahab, and like a dog, strangely
cried Starbuck, let the Typhoon sing, and strike his harp here in our
cried Starbuck.  The corpusants!  the corpusants!  All the yard-arms were
critical moment, he had just recalled a little duty ashore, which he was
crouching in the bow, sat watching the sharks, that spectrally played round
cruising in company, a whale may be struck by one vessel, then escape, and
cruising-ground, the old man's purpose intensified itself.  His firm lips met
crutch-like, antediluvian, wheezing humorousness, not unstreaked now and then
cub Sperm Whale was once bodily hoisted to the deck for his poke or bag, to
cub?
cured.  Nor, at the time, had it failed to enter his monomaniac mind, that all
curing the wound, when whang come the arrows all round; Sagittarius, or the
cursed second iron towing along near me caught me here (clapping his hand
curvicues here with the Massachusetts calendar.  Here's the book.  Let's see
cutting-tackles, and at once cast loose the cables and chains confining the
daft ones now, muttered the old Manxman.  One daft with strength, the other
daft with weakness.  But here's the end of the rotten line --all dripping, too.
damocles.  it was a wondrous sight.  the wood was green as mosses of the icy
dark canoes, and that the fancy of being so laid had much pleased him; for
dark, and stumble in darkness to his pallet, this is his usual lot.  But the
darker yet to tell, the blacksmith himself did ignorantly conduct this
darkness, and further concealed in a most cunning disguisement, a desperate
dashed to the deck.  Thou poor, proud heaven-gazer and sun's pilot!  yesterday
dashing high up against the reeling ship's high tetering side, stove in the
dawn, was sailing by a cluster of rocky islets; the watch --then headed by
dawn, when he came to the deck; it was then recounted to him by Flask, not
day coffins to clap them in, and yet again life-buoys out of those same
day previous, while three of the stranger's boats were engaged with
day, the Pequod was torn of her canvas, and bare-poled was left to fight a
day, too, gazing far down from his boat's side into that same golden sea,
days in the business of boiling out; and in the state that it is casked, the
dead bone upon which he partly stood.  For it had not been very long prior to
dead-reckoning, by log and by line; these shall conduct me, and show me my
deaden thee; as for the time it did me.
deadly harm; and come to deadly harm, my soul swears this ship will, if Ahab
deaf and dumb, spontaneous literal process.  He was a pure manipulator; his
deafened; and only when we escape it shall we hear the thousand voices that
deafening.  But a day or two after, you look about you, and prick your ears
debtor to this blockhead for a bone to stand on!  Cursed be that mortal
deck, like so many land slides, till at last man-handled and stayed in their
deck; but all their eyes upcast.  Aye, aye, men!  cried Ahab.  Look up at
deck; think of having hangings to the top; object not to taking tea by
deed.  So the pitch and sulphur-freighted brigs of the bold Hydriote, Canaris,
deep did they go; and so ancient, and corroded, and weedy the aspect of the
deep; how he is then towed alongside and beheaded; and how (on the
deeper gloom, Ahab, who had sterned off from the whale, sat intently
defendants; Lord Ellenborough was the judge.  In the course of the defence,
defiance.  To neither love nor reverence wilt thou be kind; and e'en for hate
defilements, and learned to live here in clean tabernacles of the soul;
degenerated.  But still another inquiry remains; one often agitated by the
degree the scattered solitaries, yokes, and pods, and schools of other days
delicious grief, and her orphans a truly venerable, legendary sire to dream
delight, striking something in the subterranean regions, a purse!  a
deliriously howled Ahab, as the malignant iron scorchingly devoured the
demanded, my men, the thunder turned old Ahab's needles; but out of this
demijohn.  Top-heavy was the ship as a dinnerless student with all Aristotle
denote his gentlemanly rank on board.  His face was an exceedingly round but
dent, sir --removing his hat, and brushing aside his hair, and exposing a
depths, where strange shapes of the unwarped primal world glided to and fro
descending her side.  A few keen pulls, and his boat-hook soon clinched the
desirable pattern.  Imprimis, fifty feet high in his socks; then, chest
devils in the fishery; sometimes lowering their boats for breakers, mistaking
dictating the thing he was now about to do, were certain prudential motives,
did it get there?  And so they'll say in the resurrection, when they come to
did run from him in a terror of dismay.
die it!
die yet, he averred.  They asked him, then, whether to live or die was a
die, or be weakened.  And like circles on the water, which, as they grow
die, you ought to die in pickle, you dog; you should be preserved to future
digest that jack-knife, and fully incorporate it into his general bodily
dignity and danger go hand in hand; till you get to be Captain, the higher
diligent tracings-out not belie the obvious deduction.  To trail the
directing the men in the higher hoisting and firmer lashing of the boats.  But
directly upon the palace of the Tuileries; and bones disinterred in
disappointed, especially as the horrible nosegay increased, when suddenly
discourse of parlors, sofas, carpets, and fine cambrics; propose to mat the
discourseth: Ye tail is ye Queen's, that ye Queen's wardrobe may be supplied
discoursing of sperm, it behooves to speak of other things akin to it, in the
disembowelled, you should have stooped over the hatchway, and peered down
dishes a roast-pig?  Surely not.  A veritable witness have you hitherto been,
disinterred in the Rue Dauphine in Paris, a short street opening almost
displaced, that it had stake-wise smitten, and all but pierced his groin;
ditches, canals, and wells, wine-vaults, cellars, and cisterns of all sorts.
divided in the same way as the whale, the King receiving the highly dense and
divinest symbol of the crystal skies, looks like some crown-jewel stolen from
do naturally beget their like.  Yea, more than equally, thought Ahab; since
do not make plain; but in that year (
do.  These are scientific commentaries; but the commentaries of the whalemen
do; owned a house and garden; embraced a youthful, daughter-like, loving
doctors declared it a huge reptile, and bestowed upon it the name of
does it seem any argument in favor
done, he marshalled the planks and his tools, and to work.
done?  Perhaps an hour, sir.  Bungle away at it then, and bring it to me
doors of iron.  The intense heat of the fire is prevented from communicating
dost thou, darker half, rock me with a prouder, if a darker faith.  All thy
down a beaver; so.  Halloa!  whew!  there goes my tarpaulin overboard; Lord,
dramatic midnight, so gloomy-jolly.
drawing near of Death, which alike levels all, alike impresses all with a
drawings; and it seemed that hereby he was striving, in his rude way, to copy
drawn from it, and then had the iron part placed in the coffin along with one
dreaded symbol of grim death, by a mere hap, made the expressive sign of the
dream with thy hand on the helm!  Turn not thy back to the compass; accept
dreamy quietude, when beholding the tranquil
drink.  For, as a general thing, the English merchant-ship scrimps her crew;
drinking; but that if Monsieur wants to live another day to drink, then
drive us towards home.  Yonder, to windward, all is blackness of doom; but
drop off; and from the keen steel barb there now came a levelled flame of
drop, fast as the sheets from a rapt orator's desk.  Arrayed in decent black;
dropped from the stern, where it always hung obedient to a cunning spring;
drums came from her forecastle; and drawing still nearer, a crowd of her men
duke so very poor as to be forced to this desperate mode of getting a
dumbest dust.  Old man of oceans!  of all this fiery life of thine, what will
duty!  no wonder that in old times this sperm was such a favorite cosmetic.
eagerness of what seemed the approaching crisis of the voyage, all hands were
ears.  Another has the toothache: the carpenter out pincers, and clapping
earth, and a mystical treatise on the art of attaining truth; so that
earth, yet suckled by the sea; though hill and valley mothered me, ye
earthly symbol.  So in this vale of Death, God girds us round; and over all
easier to harvest.  Why tell the whole?  The blows of the basement hammer
easy to step over into a dark corner when you ate it.  But all in all, taking
eccentric span.  But while hapless Dough-Boy was by nature dull and torpid in
eddying cloud of vulture sea-fowl that circled, and hovered, and swooped
effulgences, infernally superb; then the evil-blazing diamond, once the
either case, the needle never again, of itself, recovers the original virtue
elastic head peculiar to that fish, which, symbolically regarded, may
elevated quarter-deck, so that the whole rejoicing drama was full before him,
else.  Then tell me; art thou not an arrant, all-grasping, inter-meddling,
elsewhere seen -- mount his dead back in a rolling sea; and finally descend
embraced acres of living bulk, and Aldrovandus of others which measured eight
empire (which was the world's); and yet I owe for the flesh in the tongue I
empty catacombs, and reeled and rolled in the sea like an air-freighted
empty into thee!
encountering the Frenchman, that a most significant event befell the most
encountering the gay Bachelor, whales were seen and four were slain; and one
end.  Petrified by his aspect, and still more shrinking from the fiery dart
endeavors, the wound kept getting worse and worse; the truth was, sir, it
ended in providing the sometimes madly merry and predestinated craft with a
english captain, he's welcome to the arm he has, since I can't help it,
ensuing scene, the carpenter continues sneezing at times).  Well, manmaker!
entangled in it, when at last plumping into the water.  That instant the
enterprise; not overlooking the minutest seminal germs of his blood, and
entire freedom the whaleman takes his handful of lamps --often but old bottles
entrapped in the smell, with no hope of escaping except by its breezing up
entrapped, had most sadly blurred his brightness; though, as ere long will be
entreaties and indignations at times.
entreaty wilt thou hearken to; all this thou scornest.  Flat obedience to thy
ere thou couldst die on this voyage, two hearses must verily be seen by thee
erect before the lofty tri-pointed trinity of flames.  Oh!  thou clear spirit
error-abounding log?  and in this very Typhoon, did he not swear that he
especially when I stand a'top of this pine tree here.  Caw!  caw!  caw!  caw!  caw!
essentially one with the electricity beheld in heaven; hence it is not to be
evening, somehow to Ahab conveyed a wondrousness unknown before.  He turns
ever turn up his nose at such a whale as this, however much he may shun
ever-woven verdant warp and woof intermixed and hummed around him, the mighty
every Low Dutch harpooneer in that ancient Greenland and Spitzbergen whale
every day grew more and more between; and each blow every day grew fainter
every little untoward circumstance that befel him, and which indirectly
every month assuming greener, fresher verdure; but himself a skeleton.  Life
every preparation for death; now that his coffin was proved a good fit,
every side.  Sideways lashed in each of her three basketed tops were two
every soul on her decks were wrapped in a pall.  A moment or two passed, when
every woe unreverenced; his grey head a scorn to flaxen curls!  Death seems
example to all drunken tars.  However, the masts did not go overboard; and by
example.  For, say they, when cruising in an empty ship, if you can get
excavating the great docks of Antwerp, in Napoleon's time.  Cuvier pronounced
exceed in magnitude the fattest of Pharaoh's fat kine; in the face of
exchanged.  Where was he? --not killed! --not killed!  cried Ahab, closely
exclaimed interrogatively, cut?  meantime pip's blue, choked face plainly
exclaimed, --Look ye, for yourselves, if Ahab be not the lord of the level
exclaimed: There is one God that is Lord over the earth, and one Captain
executioner; how, in due time, he is condemned to the pots, and, like
expatiate.  Would you, you could not compress him.  By good rights he
explained the wonder.  Those rocky islands the ship had passed were the resort
expound it.  First: What is a Fast-Fish?  Alive or dead a fish is technically
expressed his detestation of his Captain as a conceited ignoramus, who had
expressly purchased for that purpose; because that famous lexicographer's
extended hand, now took the precise bearing of the sun, and satisfied that
extremity the rope was unstranded, and the separate spread yarns were all
eyeing the transpointed compasses, the old man, with the sharp of his
eyes could persuade such ignorance as theirs, and one after another they
eyes do dimly see it.  Oh, thou foundling fire, thou hermit immemorial, thou
eyes in the deck, or new tree-nails in the side planks, and other
face, saw the Parsee; and hooped round by the gloom of the night they seemed
fact is, you books must know your
fainter, expand; so his eyes seemed rounding and rounding, like the rings of
fair one had only been juggling her.  Meanwhile, whatever were his own secret
faith; but see!  no sooner dead, than death whirls round the corpse, and it
faithful, broad, baronial vassal of the sun! --Oh that these too-favoring eyes
fall of eve, the blacksmith's soul responded, Aye, I come!  And so Perth
famous voyage was commanded by a Captain Coffin, a Nantucketer.  All honor to
fancied measurement I please.  Because there are skeleton authorities you can
fancied that you could feel them, and roll them about in you after they were
fancy them to have been, were the right sort of men to stand up in a boat's
fangs: the tiger of Bengal crouches in spiced groves of ceaseless verdure.
far North, be it remembered, where beer agrees well with the constitution;
far away to leeward, be retaken by a second whaler, who, in a calm, snugly
fast, when it is connected with an occupied ship or boat, by any medium at
fat-kettles, and oil sheds; and when the works were in full operation
fatal; all its loadstone virtue being annihilated, so that the before
fatalistic despair that seemed meant for himself --these passed over the mute,
fate reaches all the others that may be in the ship; even were the lowermost
features, now all begrimed with smoke and sweat, their matted beards, and
features.  But to a large and thorough sweeping comprehension of him, it
feel the smart of my crushed leg, though it be now so long dissolved; then,
feet through the wrist; no heart at all, brass forehead, and about a
feigned to cast off from the whale; hoisting his boats, the Frenchman soon
fellow, Starbuck, he said lowly to the mate; then raising his voice to the
fellow, now, he banteringly laughed, standing in the ship's bows, there's
felt like eels, and began, as it were, to serpentine and spiralize.  As I sat
felt so kind a thing as this, perhaps he had ne'er been lost!  This seems to
few disordered joints; and in place of the weighty and majestic, but boneless
few drops of hartshorn, there is no telling.  But there it was; and there it
fiend shapes before me, capering half in smoke and half in fire, these at
fight you like grim fiends exasperated by a penal gout.  The Forty-barrel-bull
fighting for one coffin, a sight not seen very often beneath the sun!  Come
figure-head put together, sufficiently explained the whole to him.  A wooden
filled it; that the harpooneers had headed the sockets of their irons and
filled them; that indeed everything was filled with sperm, except the
filled with Nantucket soundings.
final capture; and the harpoons and line because when the fish made off with
finally bestirred themselves to cleanse the ship, and make a spotless dairy
finally given in; and so it came to pass that every one now knew the shameful
find it in the deep-loaded hull; or how hope to plug it, even if found, in
find it needful.  Now upon the second lowering, the boat paddled upon the
find it rather hard.  Yes, when a fellow's soaked through, it's hard to be
find the unmistakable print of his fin.  In an apartment of the great temple
fine hammered steel of woe.  All is vanity.  ALL.  This wilful world hath
fine vintage of the vineyards of Champagne.
finger has been laid on the ship; when his mene, mene, Tekel Upharsin has
fire.  So, swinging his seated form to the roll of the ship, and with his
firmament.  Curse thee, thou quadrant!  dashing it to the deck, no longer
firmly secured aloft between the foremast and mainmast, three Long Island
first, be it recorded, that, in this matter, I am not free to utter any
first, the white hump backed through the wreck, as though it was all chips.
first.  In truth, it turned out to be one of those problematical whales that
fish up this old mast, and find a doubloon lodged in it, with bedded oysters
fish.  But a combing sea dashed me off, and at the same instant, the fish,
fisherman.  It drags hard; I guess he's holding on.  Jerk him, Tahiti!  Jerk
fishermen have been their own legislators and lawyers in this matter.  They
fishery.  In the first place, the amount of butter, and Texel and Leyden
fishery.  Often, in mild, pleasant weather, for twelve, fifteen, eighteen,
flames, which at intervals forked forth from the sooty flues, and
flash of the lightning glancing aloft, to see what additional disaster might
flights, some of which flew close to Ahab.  Are these thy Mother Carey's
flip only foamin'; When he stirs in the spicin', -- Such a funny, sporty,
flood, spout his frothed defiance to the skies.
flood-tide lifted him higher and higher towards his destined heaven.  Not a
flooded, like the Netherlands, to kill off its rats, then the eternal whale
fobbing of them.  Now when these poor sun-burnt mariners, bare-footed, and
folded Death; Death trellised Life; the grim god wived with youthful Life,
folded bulb of a bright red color.  Upon her head boards, in large gilt
followed by the joy-childlessness of all hell's despair; whereas, some guilty
following him.  Back, lad; I will be with ye again presently.  He goes!  Not
following the flashes, a voice was heard at his side; and almost at the same
foolish look to it; yet, if it be really foolish, then has it a sort of
footman will show round future visitors with a bunch of keys at his side.
footstep at the door, but not turning round to it.  On deck!  Begone!
for Ambergriese in the paunch of this Leviathan, insufferable fetor denying
for a certain period, both before and after the sailing of the Pequod, he
for a time to become quite maimed; and, temporarily, Pip was put into his
for a time with wood.  After that no wood is used, except as a means of quick
for an old button off some king's trowsers.  But, aside again!  here comes
for by Ahab --invested itself with terrors, not entirely underived from the
for form's sake than anything else, regularly putting down upon the customary
for it, independent of those pertaining to the distrusted one in use.
for men.  But the bodings of the crew were destined to receive a most
for my sanity.  So, so, I leave him muttering.  Here's the ship's navel,
for prudent, most wise, and economic reasons, the blacksmith's shop was in the
for some moments to catch the precise instant when the sun should gain its
for that dried up one, there, he hasn't a gill in his whole carcase.  I
for the most part, they seem a mob of unnecessary duplicates, both
for the peculiarly active pursuits shortly to be anticipated, Perth, the
for the pit.  By midnight the works were in full operation.  We were clear
for the shaggy bark.  Oh, the gold!  the precious, precious gold! --the green
for things passed, the other all forebodings as to things to come --their two
for those masts are rooted in a hold that is going to be chock a' block with
for, man?  thrusted light is worse than presented pistols.  i thought, sir,
forbearing!  Shall we not understand each other better than hitherto, Captain
forecastle and took Queequeg's measure with great accuracy, regularly
foreseeing that all the oil they will get won't be enough to dip the Captain's
foreshadowing of evil in the future, but as the fulfilment of an evil already
forge and anvil, the latter placed upon an iron-wood log, with one hand
forging the buckle-screw, sir, now.  Right.  It's a partnership; he supplies
former woe; and he too plainly seemed to see, that as the most poisonous
forth its vapory spout; while, suspended from a bough, the terrific lower jaw
forth.  But Plowdon gives us the reason for it.  Says Plowdon, the whale so
forty-barrel-bulls, as they call them, are by far the most pugnacious of all
forward nigh the windlass, pretty sure am I that you would have scanned with
forward, and in a loud voice commanded his crew to desist from hoisting the
fossils.  Detached broken fossils of pre-adamite whales, fragments of their
found a silver ring grown over in it; some old darkey's wedding ring.  How
found too large to be easily inserted into its hole: the carpenter claps it
foundation does not penetrate the deck, but the masonry is firmly secured to
frankly back from the binnacle, and pointing his stretched arm towards it,
free from all ill-will, or petulence, or malice, of any sort whatsoever.
fresh fare they had.  But the forecastle was not very light, and it was very
freshness and genuineness, even as the traveller on the prairie hunts up his
from Stubb; and as for Stubb, he was to utter any nonsense that should come
from a South Sea Sperm Whaler; which in a voyage of four years perhaps,
from him, we gaze for him in vain!  This coin speaks wisely, mildly, truly,
from me he's a baboon.
from out the very heart of this plague, there stole a faint stream of
from promontory to cape; and if one coast is no longer enlivened with their
from starvation; what is that ruinous discount but a Fast-Fish?  What is the
from surveying poor Queequeg -- Oh, devilish tantalization of the gods!
from the Sovereign.  We must needs inquire then on what principle the Sovereign
from the ashes of the burned scraps of the whale, a potent ley is readily
from the carcase; sail had been made; the wind was freshening; the wild
from the ships she had met; and these were stowed along the deck, and in the
from the topsail-yard-arms, when most they teter over to a seething sea; but
from the whale, the white-horse is first cut into portable oblongs ere going
from the whale.  When the proper time arrives for cutting up its contents,
from these dark planks the coffin was recommended to be made.  No sooner was
full grown development, for that rare knowledge I am indebted to my late
full of it.  Hark to it.  Aye, and that's because the lid there's a
full of the precious sperm, the Amelia's example was soon followed by other
full of the sweet things of love and gratitude.  Come!  I feel prouder leading
full tidiness.  The soot is brushed from the lower rigging.  All the numerous
full-grown magnitude of my friend King Tranquo's.  In both cases, the stranded
fully invested body.  So Owen rechristened the monster Zeuglodon; and in his
fun: so the old song says; --( sings.) Oh!  jolly is the gale, And a joker
fundamentals of all human jurisprudence; For notwithstanding its complicated
furled sails betokened that some sort of whale must be alongside.  As we
furlongs from spiracle to tail, and the yards he measures about the waist;
furnaces, directly underneath the pots.  These mouths are fitted with heavy
furnished with several vices, of different sizes, and both of iron and of
furnished, to show that the hunted whale cannot now escape speedy extinction.
furnishing an example of the high, humane abstraction; the Pequod's carpenter
further?  Can it be that in some spiritual sense the coffin is, after all, but
gaff is something like a boat-hook.  With his gaff, the gaffman hooks on to a
gaffs and pikes to-day.  Look ye here!  jingling the leathern bag, as if it
gain a complete notion of the general structure we are about to view.  In
gamy, jesty, joky, hoky-poky lad, is the Ocean, oh!  Thunder splits the
genealogies
generally speaking, a sick savage is almost half-well again in a day.  So, in
gentleman's property, along with whatever harpoon might have been found
get some fresh air.  Some thinking they would catch the plague, dipped oakum
gets from poor Woebegone, the bankrupt, on a loan to keep Woebegone's family
getting nothing at all for our pains but our blisters?  It is his.  Is the
getting the heavy tackles in readiness for the whales.  But they worked rather
given bid for bid with the wealthiest Praetorians at the auction of the Roman
gives it a good stretching, so as almost to double its diameter; and at last
glance shot like a javelin with the pointed intensity of his purpose; and
glass and a bottle in the air.  Hast seen the White Whale?  gritted Ahab in
glass, to each and every man in turn but mirrors back his own mysterious
glassy barriers and walls there, come up among icy fields and floes; and in
gleamed as if they too
glided nearer, the stranger showed French colors from his peak; and by the
gliding so serenely along; as I bathed my hands among those soft, gentle
glitteringly gazing into the weeping faces of her children; the bellows fell;
globe of the moderns.  Gliding among them, old Leviathan swam as of yore; was
globe, yet what shall we say to Harto, the historian of Goa, when he tells
globules of infiltrated tissues, woven almost within the hour; as they richly
gloom, now and then made ghastly by flashes of redness.  Uppermost was the
gloom; and as the two ships crossed each other's wakes --one all jubilations
glow; yet, when the cunning jeweller would show you the diamond in its most
go back for a moment.  It was about nine o'clock at night that the Pequod's
go on a better voyage than this.  Overhearing Starbuck, the panic-stricken
gods again.  hark ye, dost thou not ever sing working about a coffin?  The
gold-hunters.  And all the time numberless fowls were diving, and ducking, and
gold.  And what's the horse-shoe sign?  The lion is the horse-shoe sign --the
golden treasuries, yet did his breath upon them prove but tarnishing.  Oh,
golden, glad sun, the only true lamp --all others but liars!  Nevertheless the
good God, the barb ript its way along the flesh --clear along the whole length
good ale with their cronies, upon the strength of their respective shares;
good cheer is not normal and natural, but incidental and particular; and,
good finish on.  Time, time; if I but only had the time, I could turn him
good flip down in the forecastle.  It was a fine gam we had, and they were all
good luck bore down upon the moody Pequod, the barbarian sound of enormous
good luck would have it, they had had a whale alongside a day or two
good time my Queequeg gained strength; and at length after sitting on the
goodness, and in man all ill, lo you!  see the omniscient gods oblivious of
gorgeous hills, whence, east and west, over golden sands, the head-waters of
gorges, and soar out of them again and become invisible in the sunny spaces.
got foul of his teeth, caught there somehow; but we didn't know it then; so
gradations, and at the last one pause: --through infancy's unconscious spell,
grapes their wine; as I snuffed up that uncontaminated aroma, --literally and
grassy glades!  oh, ever vernal endless landscapes in the soul; in ye,
grave, lingering glances towards the receding Bachelor; but the Bachelor's
great chest of drawers, you can open and shut him, in all his bony cavities
great glory in killing him, I know that; and there is a ship-load of
great part of the time soliloquizing; but only like an unreasoning wheel,
great try-pots, two in number, and each of several barrels' capacity.  When
great, white, worshipped skeleton lay lounging --a gigantic idler!  Yet, as the
great-grandfather, with the white head and hump, runs all afoam into the pod,
grey hairs of mine 'tis not worth while disputing, 'specially with a
griffins, and dolphins, similar to the grotesque figures on the celestial
ground.  Oh, oh!  Yet blindfold, yet will I talk to thee.  Light though thou
gurgling track, pushed her on like giants' palms outspread.  The strong,
had abided for now some sixty years or more.  And this it was, this same
had barrels of beef and bread been given away to make room for the far more
had been tipped by corpusants; while lit up by the preternatural light,
had cooled and crystallized to such a degree, that when, with several others,
had died wide apart; one, far to windward; one, less distant, to leeward;
had elapsed, did it transpire upon the Pequod's decks.  But be all this as it
had hidden himself away with such Grand-Lama-like exclusiveness; and, for
had succeeded in harpooning the fish; they were at last, through peril of
had the young widow had a
hair-powders, and pomatum.  The Turks use it in cooking, and also carry it to
half-articulated wailings of the ghosts of all Herod's murdered Innocents
half-horrible stolidity in him, involving, too, as it appeared, an
half-humorous cries with which the people on deck began to drive the coffin
half-stranded.  Shall I strike it, sir?  Strike nothing; lash it.  If I had
half-stupidly felt the deadly numbness stealing over him, and sought refuge
half-way meeting, interpenetrate, and form one seamless whole.  Nor did such
hammer that knot down, and we've done.  So; next to touching land, lighting
hammer, calking-iron, pitch-pot, and marling-spike!  Let's to it.
hand! -- but one single word with thee!  Nay --the shuttle flies --the figures
hand, the wondrous old man, with his back to the gangway door, was wrinkling
handicrafts which more or less have to do with wood as an auxiliary material.
handle of his wooden vice, the carpenter signs him to clap his jaw in that,
handled so many deadly lances, strange, that I should shake so now.  Loaded?
hands into a trumpet and shouted -- No, Sir!  No!  Upon which Ahab retired,
hanging.  No, Stubb; you may pound that knot there as much as you please,
hangs it, well spread, in the
hard up into the socket; from the lower end the rope was traced half way along
hard upon what are now the Tropics; and in all the 25,000 miles of this
hard which should be soft, and that soft which should be hard.  So we go,
hardly is this done, when -- There she blows! --the ghost is spouted up, and
harm can come to the holder of the rod, unless the mast is first struck?
harpoon-pole sticking in him, and for a moment clung to that like a sucking
harpooneer sleepy at the mast-head and boozy in his boat; and grievous loss
harpooneers wildly gesticulated with their huge pronged forks and dippers; as
harpoons, and boat, which had remained attached to the whale at the time of
has not been added how that sometimes in these walks, when most plunged in
hast here, then, the best and stubbornest stuff we blacksmiths ever work.  I
hatch, removed from the top of the works, now afforded a wide hearth in front
hath more of joy than sorrow in him, that mortal man cannot be true --not true,
haughty agony, i read my sire.  leap!  leap up, and lick the sky!  I leap
have been because there was none in his spade, sir.  But the calking mallet is
have befallen the intricate hamper there; while Stubb and Flask were
have layn there a hundred Years before I saw it.  Their Historians affirm,
have left in them some interior compunctions against suicide, does the
have left their mouldings there since yesterday, murmured Starbuck to
have made, and which I partly base upon Captain Scoresby's estimate, of
have provided a system which for terse comprehensiveness surpasses Justinian's
have sat before the dense coal fire and watched it all aglow, full of its
have spoiled it. 'Twill hold, old gentleman.  Long heat and wet, have they
have tasted, supposing him to have been killed the first day after the venison
have to die now, ejaculated the Long Island sailor.  Going to his
have to meet it, is just across the deck here.  But never mind; it's all in
have to say.  There; he's before it; he'll out with something presently.  So,
have villanies been detected.  Ah, mortal!  then, be heedful; for so, in all
have vow'd thy vow; say'st all of us are Ahabs.  Great God forbid! -- But is
have ye seen him?  Never heard of such a whale.  Cachalot Blanche!  White
he caught a terrible chill which lapsed into a fever; and at last, after some
he could hardly hope to attain.  It has before been hinted, perhaps, that
he did not have a common soul in him, he had a subtle something that somehow
he half calmly rose, and as he quitted the cabin, paused for an instant and
he held in one hand, and a pill-box held in the other, occasionally casting
he is chased over the watery moors, and slaughtered in the valleys of the
he is wont to stand --his stand-point is stove, man!  Now jump overboard, and
he only thinks to terrify by feints.  But sometimes he is like the old
he said --Ahab beware of Ahab --there's something there!  Then unconsciously
he should give undiluted conscientious advice to Pip, he would be leaving him
he spent, in carving the lid with all manner of grotesque figures and
he stands on will sometimes irresistibly slide away from him, like a sledge.
he supposed, no doubt, that they would of course come up to Pip very quickly,
he was standing in the boat's stern, and the Manilla men were springing to
he's been studying Murray's Grammar!  Improving his mind, poor fellow!  But
he's left his tambourine behind; --I found it.  Rig-a-dig, dig, dig!  Now,
he's sleeping.  Sleeping?  aye, but still alive, and soon awake again.  I
head, and a small bag of woody earth scraped up in the hold at the foot; and
head, and so expiring --that strange spectacle, beheld of such a placid
head, and take good aim at flying whales; this would seem somewhat
head-waters of the Eternities, it may be fitly inquired, whether, in the
headed over, end for end, and sometimes perilously scoot across the slippery
headlong we are tossed; when Aquarius, or the Water-bearer, pours out his
heads some other way. -- Oh, thou dark Hindoo half of nature, who of drowned
heaps; and among the joyous, heartless, ever-juvenile eternities, Pip saw the
heard of two pious whale-ships cruising after
heard.  Hast seen the White Whale?  Aye, yesterday.  Have ye seen a
hearse-driver, he must have been, that is, before he took to the sea.  He
hearses?  Have I not said, old man, that neither hearse nor coffin can be
heart of earth.  Lifted by those eternal swells, you needs must own the
heart of the Japanese cruising ground, the Pequod was soon all astir in the
heart of the learned gentleman with the copy of Blackstone.  At length one of
heart-strings.  Come, let's down.  What's this?  here's velvet shark-skin,
hearty!  let us shake bones together! --an arm and a leg! --an arm that never
heat of the fire, till their eyes felt scorched in their heads.  Their tawny
heathenish, coffin-colored old lumber aboard, which, upon a long previous
heave the heavy windlass, and cut and slash, yea, and in their very
heaven without any of Savesoul's help) what is that globular 100,000 but a
heavy beating of his heart.  And so it was. --Most miserable!
help and hope of most endangered life.  A life-buoy of a coffin!  Does it go
her course as possible, watching the compass meanwhile, lo!  a good sign!
her from truck to helm, considering the dimensions of the cook's boilers,
her own.  Now, in the whale ship, it is not every one that goes in the boats.
her, and destroyed the idol, and burnt it for an abomination at the brook
here's his leg!  Yes, now that I think of it, here's his bedfellow!  has a
here's nine hundred and sixty of them; so here goes Flask aloft to spy 'em
here's signs and wonders truly!  That, now, is what old Bowditch in his
here, carpenter; let me feel its grip once.  so, so; it does pinch some.
here.  No, no!  shame upon all cowards --shame upon them!  Let 'em go drown
hermetically closed, like a closet walled up.  In the sperm fishery, this is
hey, Jenny, Jenny!  and get your hoe-cake done!
hidden bodies widely wade through the amazing verdure.  The long-drawn virgin
hiding the pots; every cask is out of sight; all tackles are coiled in
high noon; and Ahab, seated in the bows of his high-hoisted boat, was about
high rolling waves, but through the tall grass of a rolling prairie: as when
high-bred, stall-fed, prize cattle of Smithfield, not only equal, but far
higher than other birds upon the plain, even though they soar.
hilarious jig.  Meanwhile, others of the ship's company were tumultuously busy
him Starbuck looked, and lo!  the two compasses pointed East, and the
him in most of his present habitatory and anatomical peculiarities, it now
him like great cables and hausers coiled away in the subterranean orlop-deck
him nights; was very severe with him in the matter of diet-- Oh, very
him off; we haul in no cowards here.  Ho!  there's his arm just breaking
him to completely digest even a
him, and the screw was fast: or if for tweezers, take him up by the legs,
him, poor pagan; where, strange to say, for all the heat of his sweatings,
him, while employed in the peculiar functions of his office.  That office
himself fast, and at the same time also helped to hoist his own weight, by
himself, leaning against the bulwarks.  The old
his angry flukes; only on the profound unbounded sea, can the fully invested
his benevolence.  But we are all in the hands of the Gods; and Pip jumped
his brow, and tracing his old courses again.  Who's there?  hearing the
his cabin to drink a bottle of Bordeaux.  He wants you to take a glass of wine
his chest and neck.  Tashtego stood in the bows.  He was full of the fire of
his crew were dropped to the water, and were soon alongside of the stranger.
his fatal pride.
his feelings --likewise unmurmuringly acquiesced.  As for the men, though some
his fingers.  He was like one of those unreasoning but still highly useful,
his head and crow!  queequeg dies game! --mind ye that; queequeg dies game! --
his intellects, Pip, though over tender-hearted, was at bottom very bright,
his ivory heel -- it minds me of the noble, solid, Saxon hospitality of that
his live and dead feet, a sneering triumph that seemed meant for Ahab, and a
his mood, he was wont to pause in turn at each spot, and stand there
his mother did; he was born with it.  Oh, you solemn rogue, you --you Bunger!
his old Mogulship, and see whether the length will be all right; too short,
his own pivot-hole there, he so vehemently wheeled round with an urgent
his perch, when a cry was heard --a cry and a rushing --and looking up, they
his pocket a small vial of sand, and then looking from the ship to the vial,
his quadrant was no more, and recalled his frantic oath about the level log
his retired palm villa at Pupella; a sea-side glen not very far distant from
his spars to any gale?  Has he not dashed his heavenly quadrant?  and in these
his subtile skill, in a matter so wondrous as that of the inverted compasses.
his undeviating wake.  Ha, ha, my ship!  thou mightest well be taken now for
his unobstructed bones.  But as the colossal skull embraces so very large a
hissing masses of blubber into the scalding pots, or stirred up the fires
history; but here Stubb takes oaths that he has always been jolly!
hitherto discovered belong to the Tertiary period, which is the last
hoisted boat, and poising a harpoon, pronounced himself fit for a fight.
hoisting operations previously detailed, were regularly gone through, even to
hold it on.  Fine day, aint it?  Air rather gardenny, I should say; throw us
holders, so called.  Poor Queequeg!  when the ship was about half
holding a pike-head in the coals, and with the other at his forge's lungs,
hollow tree!  Blind and dumb might well be envied now.  See!  that thing rests
home to Holland for that purpose.  It was a collection of furnaces,
homeward-bound.  How wondrous familiar is a fool!  muttered Ahab; then
honest clergyman of the town respectfully addressed a note to his Grace,
hooded their orbs, and his wild face was subdued to an earthly
hoof of them remains in all that region; and though the cause of this
hoops, were hoisted out, till at last the piled decks were hard to get
hose, unbuckling his garters, and casting loose the hooks and the eyes of
hours; when from the boat, where they have swelled their wrists with all day
house of enderby and sons; a house which in my poor whaleman's opinion,
hovering near by all this while, drew nigh to him where he lay, and with
however wanton in their sailor ways, one and all, the mariners revered it as
huge drooping stalk, was painted green, and for thorns had copper spikes
hull, Stern all!  the White Whale spouts thick blood!
hum; you almost swear that play-wearied children lie sleeping in these
hummed like a harp-string, then eagerly bending over it, and seeing no
humming silence to reign there, though it was hooped round by all the roar of
hump!  instead of the other whale's that went off to windward, all fluking.
hundred and sixty-five Fourth of Julys and New Year's Days.  Nor smile so,
hunted from the savannas and glades of the middle seas, the whale-bone whales
hunted, for all that.  What is best let alone, that accursed thing is not
hunters in all similar instances; and such instances not unfrequently occur;
hunting, since he has a pasture to expatiate in, which is precisely twice as
husband's hammer; whose reverberations, muffled by passing through the floors
idleness in the hold; and, to accelerate the affair, the blacksmith was
idler seemed the cunning weaver; himself all woven over with the vines;
idol of Queequeg.  And an idol, indeed, it is; or, rather, in old times, its
if anything, I guess.  Ha!  that's the heel; we are in luck; here he comes,
if he would have him draw the tooth.  Thus, this carpenter was prepared at all
if there happen to be an unduly slender, clumsy, or timorous wight in the
ignition to the staple fuel.  In a word, after being tried out, the crisp,
ignorance, have talked in ancient tongues; and that when the mystery is
ignores you, though you dig foundations for cathedrals.  Yet was this
ill-humor or envy!  Come; let us squeeze hands all round; nay, let us all
illuminated every lofty rope in the rigging, as with the famed Greek fire.
immediately shifting his tone, he cried -- The corpusants have mercy on us
immediately, and at any one of the twenty-four hours, any decided change in
impatient of any toil but what was directly connected with its final end,
implements which have been in use are likewise faithfully cleansed and put
impression, that whatever swift, rushing thing I stood on was not so much
impressive lustre, he lays it against a gloomy ground, and then lights it
improbable.  Yet they did aim at them, and hit them too.  But this was very
in Ahab's front, but with his head bowed away from him; while near by, from
in Hull, England, one of the whaling ports of that country, where they have
in a leaning, dilapidated barn.  The issue was, the loss of the extremities of
in all my voyagings, seldom have I heard a common oath when God's burning
in allaying the heat of anger: while bathing in that bath, I felt divinely
in coal-tar, and at intervals held it to their nostrils.  Others having
in depth.  Now, the greatest depth of the invested body of this particular
in dishonor, but raised in glory.  And likewise call to mind that saying of
in fobbing his perquisites; which are his chiefly by virtue of that same
in former times, of a Dutch village called Schmerenburgh or Smeerenberg,
in high excitement, eagerly helping their chief, and looking as anxious as
in his gait, had at an early period of the voyage excited the curiosity of
in his head.  Well was it that the Typhoons did not visit them then.  Now, at
in its conspicuous crotch, so that it projected beyond his whale-boat's bow;
in my diet.  Oh!  a great watcher, and very dietetically severe, is Dr.
in numerous trades and callings collateral to his own; the carpenter's
in one kind of world, you see.  Dodge again!  here comes Queequeg --all
in pangs!  So be it, then!  Here's stout stuff for woe to work on.  So be it,
in self-complacent testimony of his entire satisfaction.  As this glad ship of
in set terms decided, to wit, --That as for the boat, he awarded it to the
in some enchanted way, inverted.  My God!  what is the matter with me?  thought
in such matters.  But why should the King have the head, and the Queen the
in that Japanese sea, the days in summer are as freshets of effulgences.
in the Tertiary system (embracing a distinct geological period prior to man),
in the earlier geological strata there are found the fossils of monsters now
in the sequel of the narrative, it will then be seen what like abandonment
in the spinal column; threepence to hear the echo in the hollow of his
in this case the alleged right of the Duke to the whale was a delegated one
in this self-same ship; and were it not for the tell-tale boats and
in this world but to cut my throat.  And when that's done, ten to one I sing
in which the hated White Whale must even then be swimming.  Launched at length
in width something less than three feet, and in depth more than four.  The
inches long.  I measured it with the lead line.  In short, it grew black; I
inches.  In general thickness, they all bore a seemly correspondence to their
inches; they cracked each other's sconces with their yard-sticks -- the great
incidentally used by the sperm fishermen.  It designates the dark, glutinous
including his own live parchment boilers; fore and aft, I say, the Samuel
increased his distance, while the Pequod slid in between him and Stubb's
incredulous concerning the populousness of the more enormous creatures of the
indeed can the whale possibly be otherwise than fragrant, when, as a general
indeed is it regarded by some, that no cupidity could persuade them to moor
indeed, it seemed small matter for wonder, that for all his pervading, mad
indefatigable house again bestirred itself: Samuel and all his Sons --how
individuality.  He swam the seas before the continents broke water; he once
indulged.  Leaning over in his hammock, Queequeg long regarded the coffin
industrious earth beneath was as a weaver's loom, with a gorgeous carpet on
inexplicable, unimaginable casualty, his ivory limb having been so violently
inferior article). 550 ankers of Geneva. 10,800 barrels of beer.  Most
inflexibly enough); then, the already shaken ivory received such an additional
insanity came over me; and I found myself unwittingly squeezing my
insanity is heaven's sense; and wandering from all mortal reason, man comes
inscrutably constructed by Divine Providence, that it is quite impossible for
inserted, and the keel is otherwise, for the time, but a long, disconnected
insignificant of the Pequod's crew; an event most lamentable; and which
insignificant opinion, I regard this as queer.  I have seen doubloons before
inspectingly.  He goes below; let me read.  A dark valley between three
instant a volley of thunder peals rolled overhead.  Who's there?  Old
instantly lowered in chase.  After a keen sail before the wind, this fourth
instituted an action to recover possession of her.  Erskine was on the other
insultest the sun!  Science!  Curse thee, thou vain toy; and cursed be all
intently gazing at Ahab's hand, and feeling it.  Ah, now, had poor Pip but
inter-indebtedness which will not do away with ledgers.  I would be free as
intercepted links, between the antichronical creatures, and those whose
intermediate death; here are wonders supernatural, without dying for them.
internationally and universally applicable.  What was America in
interpreter's office, was to tell the Captain what he pleased, but as coming
into Ahab's bent face.  Would'st thou brand me, Perth?  wincing for a moment
into each other; let us squeeze ourselves universally into the very milk and
into it his canvas bag of clothes, set them in order there.  Many spare hours
into one of his ever-ready vices, and straightway files it smaller.  A lost
into the binnacle, Ahab caught one glimpse of the compasses; his uplifted
into the gloom of the hold, and bitterly sweating all day in that
into the long church-yard grass; her children twice followed her thither;
into the sea.
into the very eye that is even now beholding him; aye, and into the eye that
inuendoes Queequeg hinted a hint concerning his coffin.  A life-buoy of a
invited to spend part of the Arsacidean holidays with the lord of Tranque, at
involuntarily paused before it a moment.  The cabin lamp --taking long swings
involuntary consternation of the moment caused him to leap, paddle in hand,
involved but uncertain steering, and much lee-way adown the dim ages.  Now,
is a Catskill eagle in some souls that can alike dive down into the blackest
is a short firm strip of tendinous stuff cut from the tapering part of
is content too with scraping the dry bones of that other precious fish he has
is even now equally beholding the objects on the unknown, thither side of
is never found except upon the sea.  Besides, amber is a hard, transparent,
is no fixture; and if, at midnight, we would fain snatch some sweet solace
is originally invested with that right.  The law itself has already been set
is the term bestowed upon certain fragmentary parts of the whale's flesh, here
is the whale, A' flourishin' his tail, -- Such a funny, sporty, gamy, jesty,
is to be repeated concerning it in this chapter, you must not fail to carry
is to say, in his unconditional skeleton.  But how now, Ishmael?  How is it,
is to this day in force in England; and as it offers in various respects a
is ugly, too, for when aught's nailed to the mast it's a sign that things grow
is very large, 10,800 barrels.  Now, as those polar fisheries could only be
is, three hundred and sixty feet.  And Lacepede, the French naturalist, in his
isles, but that far beyond all visible horizons, their own mild,
issuing from their midnight harbors, with broad sheets of flame for sails,
it --lift it.  Strange, that I, who have
it all hissing into the cask of water near by, the scalding steam shot up
it almost seemed not only every way seeking to avoid the slightest outward
it at all; it's undignified; it's not my place.  Let tinkers' brats do
it deck?  wherefore all these ceaseless toilings?  Speak, weaver! --stay thy
it every year, and yet comes out of it all alive and hearty.  Jollily he,
it for his royal master and mistress?  What was Poland to the Czar?  What
it had shrunken, so that it slowly filled, and the parched wood also filled
it in your mind, or under your arm, as we proceed, otherwise you will not
it into Mr. Starbuck all the time -- queer, sir --queer, queer, very queer.  And
it is of a hue between yellow and ash color.  And this, good friends, is
it is, so it is; if we get it.  I was speaking of the oil in the hold,
it set down here, that she hailed from London, and was named after the late
it speak thoroughly well for thy work, if, when I come to mount this leg
it was humorously added, that the cook had clapped a head on his largest
it was not unlike the custom of his own race, who, after embalming a dead
it!  It has happened before.  Mr. Starbuck, last night's thunder turned our
it!  Look you, Doubloon, your zodiac here is the life of man in one round
it, whereof the ground-vine tendrils formed the warp and woof, and the
it.  And can'st thou make it all smooth, again, blacksmith, after such hard
it.  Arrived then at this spot, with one hand still to his nose, he bawled
it.  Aye; but never before has it happened to me, sir, said the pale
it.  In compliance with the standing order of his commander -- to report
it; and so the two vessels parted; the crew of the Pequod looking with
it; and there goes Starbuck from the same, and both with faces which I
it; free the fast-fish --an old trick --I know him.  How it was exactly,
it; mark it well; the white flame but lights the way to the White Whale!
it? --wait.  I'll cure myself of this. I'll hold the musket boldly while I
its brilliancy; behold yon lustrous ebony, panelled in king's cabinets.  But
its convex part uppermost, makes an Arch, the Head of which cannot be
its many winding, shaded collonades and arbors.  But soon my line was out;
its redness makes all things look ghastly.  To-morrow, in the natural sun,
its unmanufactured, and, therefore, unvitiated state; a fluid unknown to
itself to the deck, by means of a shallow reservoir extending under the entire
itself.  He would have shot me once, he murmured, yes, there's the very
itself; A better man than I might well pass over in thee what he would
jack-knife, and breaking the seal and reading all the contents of that young
jack-of-all-trades.  But I do not mean anything, sir.  I do as I do.  The
jaw.  Locks are to be put upon some of his trap-doors and shutters; and a
jeopardized through their own timidity, is not always manifested by the
jets, then, be sure, some other and remoter strand has been very recently
jobs.  Lord!  what an affection all old women have for tinkers.  I know an old
joky, hoky-poky lad, is the Ocean, oh!  The scud all a flyin' That's his
juggling fellow, formerly a patient of mine in Ceylon, that making believe
just below his shoulder); yes, caught me just here, I say, and bore me down
keep cool--cool?  yes, that's the word; why don't you pack those whales in ice
keep up my spirits.  And I tell you what it is, Mr. Starbuck, there's no way
kept up an unextinguished aromatic flame, so that the mystic head again sent
kidnapping cannibal ways.  Let faith oust fact; let fancy oust memory; I
kindred doctrine of Loose-Fish is still more widely so.  That is
kingdoms, on all hands coercing alms of beggars?  It will readily be seen that
kneel and kiss thee; but at thy highest, come as mere supernal power; and
knew what was threatened, and off it came.
knocked into kindling-wood; and the cabin mess dined off the broad head of
know it, old man; these stubbs will weld together like glue from the melted
know that well enough; but, d'ye see, the Captain here won't believe it;
know thee, thou clear spirit, and I now know that thy right worship is
knowest not of thyself, oh, thou omnipotent.  There is some unsuffusing thing
knows tornadoes that never swept tame northern lands.  So, too, it is, that in
labors, which know no night; continuing straight through for ninety-six
lady uses her roly-poly old coach-horses.  But Ahab; oh he's a hard driver.
lamps flashing upon his hooded eyes.  In merchantmen, oil for the sailor is
land and on sea, cried Ahab, with a laugh of derision; -- Immortal on land
land of spirits and of wails.  So that, through their zeal for him, they had
land-bird of strange plumage strays on board, and is made a captive: out of
landsman's imagination?  Having already in various ways put before you his
lantern hanging from its top, cast a troubled flickering glare upon the
large as all Asia, both Americas, Europe and Africa, New Holland, and all the
large sized modern whale.  And I have heard, on whalemen's authority, that
lashed athwartships against the rear of the Try-works.  A belaying pin is
last begat kindred visions in my soul, so soon as I began to yield to that
last one must be grown in America.  Aye, aye!  a strange sight that, Parsee:
last revelation, which only an author from the dead could adequately tell.  So
last safe aboard, she crowded all sail --stunsail on stunsail --after the
last?  Which way heading?  Bless my soul, and curse the foul fiend's,
latitude.  So, so; chisel, file, and sand-paper, now!
launching into the region of the strange Untried; it is but the first
laws and regulations of the whale fishery, of which the waif may be deemed
lay Queequeg in his coffin with little but his composed countenance in view.
leak must be further off.  So, it being calm weather, they broke out deeper
leak!  I'm all aleak myself.  Aye!  leaks in leaks!  not only full of leaky
leaning over the quarter-deck rail awaiting his report, he moulded his two
leap into their faces.  Opposite the mouth of the works, on the further side
leaped up in that same golden light: -- I am Stubb, and Stubb has his
leaping out of thee!  The javelins cease; open eyes; see, or not?  There burn
learned Low Dutch book treated of the commerce of Holland; and, among other
learned that all whalemen who died in Nantucket, were laid in those same
learned.  Though the word ambergris is but the French compound for grey amber,
least glimpse of the missing keel had been seen.  The story told, the
least ninety tons; so that reckoning thirteen men to a ton, he would
least, as well as the man at the mast-head could tell anything about it.  In
least, what untattooed parts might remain --I did not trouble myself with the
least; and that leg, too?  Spin me the yarn, said Ahab; how was it?  It
leathern bag.  While yet a little distance from the forge, moody Ahab paused;
leaving their defunct bodies almost entirely bankrupt of anything like oil.
leaving undone; and therefore had changed his mind about dying: he could not
leeward; whereupon, the fourth rigged boat --a reserved one --had been
left his pre-adamite traces in the stereotype plates of nature, and in
leg off from the crown of the anchor here, though, so I can pass the rope;
length his spade struck against the gaunt ribs, it was like turning up old
length, the Sperm Whale's skeleton at Tranque measured seventy-two feet; so
length.  The middle ribs were the most arched.  In some of the Arsacides they
less than seventy feet in length in the skeleton.  Whereas, we have already
let me charter your ship --I will gladly pay for it, and roundly pay for it
letters you saw the likeness of three Andes' summits; from one a flame; a
letters, he read Bouton de Rose, --Rose-button, or Rose-bud; and this was
levelled steel, and her progress solely determined by Ahab's level log and
life will dispute its unconditional, unintegral mastery in me.  In the midst
light, the invisible sun was only known by the spread intensity of his place;
lightly held for capstans.  But while now upon so wide a field thus variously
lightly shouldered the coffin and went forward with it, inquiring whether they
lightning has actually struck the vessel, so as to smite down some of the
lightning-rod at all in a storm?  Don't you see, you timber-head, that no
lightning-rod in the storm, and standing close by a mast that hasn't got any
lightning-rods are not always overboard; but are generally made in long
lightning.  At that moment in one of the intervals of profound darkness,
like Pip, that jumped from a whale-boat.  Shame!  shame!  During all this,
like a marble steeple.  No use sterning all, then; but as I was groping at
like a whale-boat these coffin-canoes were without a keel; though that
like an exploding bomb upon a dazed and sleepy town.  Towards evening of that
like hearth-stone cats they purr against the gunwale; these are the times of
like his own fin-bone.  There's the stuff, flinging the pouch upon the
like sap in a tree.  Yes, our three masts will yet be as three spermaceti
like the flames from the furnace; as to and fro, in their front, the
like the lips of a vice; the Delta of his forehead's veins swelled like
like the yarns and strands of a tow-line.  Quick!  I'll blow the fire.  When
like this.  i make a leg for captain ahab, and he wears it like a gentleman;
like to feel something in this slippery world that can hold, man.  What's
likeness was.  Such an idol as that found in the secret groves of Queen
limb enough?  What should I do without this other arm?  And I'm thinking Moby
limestone and marl bequeathed his ancient bust; but upon Egyptian tablets,
line; the Pequod held on her path towards the Equator.  Making so long a
lines run whole, and whirling out: come in broken, and dragging slow.  Ha,
list of the outfits for the larders and cellars of 180 sail of Dutch whalemen;
litigated in England, wherein the plaintiffs set forth that after a hard
little King-Post; dodge round the try-works, now, and let's hear what he'll
little cabin; but presently the thick plaits of his forehead relaxed, and
little man, you have pretty red hair, but you couldn't get afire now.  Shake
little swelled --of a common pocket knife; but containing, not only blades of
live heart beat against them; and these mysteries were therefore destined in
live to spend it.  Now those noble golden coins of South America are as
live, the queenly personality lives in me, and feels her royal rights.  But
livelihood?  It is his.  I thought to relieve my old bed-ridden mother by
livelong nights shrouded with thick darkness which might cover any pilfering
livers; and that the English whalers have not neglected so excellent an
living and ever accompanying prophecy of whatever shattered sequel might prove
living bulk of this leviathan, whose skeleton we are briefly to exhibit.
living flowers the figures.  All the trees, with all their laden branches;
living thing within; naught was there but bones.
living things, exhaled as air, but water now.  Then hail, for ever hail, O
loadstone!  The sun is East, and that compass swears it!  One after another
locked together.  They mostly lie like the great knobbed blocks on a Gothic
log-line.  But Ahab can mend all.  Haul in here, Tahitian; reel up, Manxman.
lonely old heads to run off with me.  But heigh-ho!  there are no caps at sea
long course of his generations, he has not degenerated from the original bulk
long tailed coat ought always to be worn in all storms afloat.  The tails
long, ribbed hull, seemed as the three Horatii pirouetting on one sufficient
long; for in the whale, the skeleton loses about one fifth in length
longer, till you came to the climax of the fifth, or one of the middle ribs,
look deep down and do believe.  And Stubb, fish-like, with sparkling scales,
look ye here; thus I blow out the last fear!  And with one blast of his
look!
look, sir!  Beware the hatchway!  Thank ye, man.  Thy coffin lies handy to
look, they look.  Why, he's getting it by heart --hist!  again.  I look,
look, you look, he looks; we look, ye look, they look.  Upon my soul,
look-outs at the mast-heads of the whale-ships, now penetrating even through
looked so scornful at me!  I'm a sort of strange-thoughted
looked, Do, for God's sake!  All passed in a flash.  In less than half a
looking on from the forecastle.  That Parsee smells fire like a fusee; and
looks like a real live leg, filed down to nothing but the core; he'll be
loom, and spoke it; and therefore his shipmates called him mad.  So man's
loose coils rapidly straightened out in a long dragging line astern, and
loose-fish, in which Columbus struck the Spanish standard by way of waifing
loosening out of the middle of the world.  Haul in, haul in, Tahitian!  These
lost life-buoy was now to be replaced; Starbuck was directed to see to it;
lotions, just like live legs.  There; before I saw it off, now, I must call
lower!  In less than a minute, without quitting his little craft, he and
lowered by the rolling billows, the towing resistance of the log caused the
lowermost puncheons, that you almost looked next for some mouldy corner-stone
lucifers forward?  Stop, now; didn't you say so?  Well, suppose I did?  What
luffs up before the doubloon; halloa, and goes round on the other side of the
lunacy, brings heavenly vouchers of all our heavenly homes.  Where learned he
made in fire must properly belong to fire; and so hell's probable.  How the
made the transfer permanent by cutting two notches at its extremities.  This
made up his mind to live, mere sickness could not kill him: nothing but a
made; and whenever any adhesiveness from the back of the whale remains
madest me, and like a true child of fire, I breathe it back to thee.
magic, allures along with it all impurities.  But to learn all about these
magnetic energy, as developed in the mariner's needle, is, as all know,
magnetic steel was of no more use than an old wife's knitting needle.  But in
magnifying, is the virtue of a large and liberal theme!  We expand to its
magnitude of that part.  Besides, for some way, where I now saw but a naked
magnitude, between eighty-five and ninety feet in length, and something less
main-mast, the most roomy part of the deck.  The timbers beneath are of a
main-top-sail yard!  Ho, gluepots!  Loftiest trucks were made for wildest
main-top-sail yard, sir.  The band is working loose, and the lee lift is
mainmast, full beneath the doubloon and the flame, the parsee was kneeling
make him the wilful murderer of thirty men and more, if this ship come to any
make sheaths for the barbs of the harpoons, and for the heads of the lances.
make them thyself, man.  Here are my razors --the best of steel; here, and make
making there?  Welding an old pike-head, sir; there were seams and dents in
malice is only his awkwardness.  For he never means to swallow a single limb;
man for a sea-captain, with large whiskers and moustache, however; and wore
man from Man; a man born in once independent Man, and now unmanned of Man;
man in each pot, side by side --many confidential communications are carried
man looking at this decision of the very learned Judge, might possibly object
man of the crew but gave him up; and, as for Queequeg himself, what he
man seems to read Belshazzar's awful writing.  I have never marked the coin
man's arm?  And he knows it too.  So that what you take for the White Whale's
man, I have no need for them; for I now neither shave, sup, nor pray till
man, said the Parsee, as his eyes lighted up like fire-flies in the gloom,
man, who can tell to what unsounded deeps Starbuck's body this day week may
man.  But as perhaps fifty of these whale-bone whales are harpooned for one
man; forbear!  t'is an ill voyage!  ill begun, ill continued; let me square
manifestation of itself, but within also seemed more than half distrustful of
many a Pactolus flows.  And though now nailed amidst all the rustiness of iron
many, their mother only knows --and under their immediate auspices, and
mariners into full consideration.  To which my Lord Duke in substance replied
mariners quickly run to the braces, and would stand there with all their eyes
mark for thunderbolts; so at those last words of ahab's many of the mariners
mark his boat there; where is that stove?  In the stern-sheets, man; where
marks, had written out on his body a complete theory of the heavens and the
marvelled that the priests should swear that smoky jet of his was genuine.  To
masonry of that side is exposed, penetrated by the two iron mouths of the
mast-head wore long streamers of narrow red bunting at their hats; from the
mast; why, there's a horse-shoe nailed on that side; and now he's back
mate, gloomily.  Here, it must needs be said, that accidents like this have in
mates and harpooneers were dancing with the olive-hued girls who had eloped
matter of his own sovereign will and pleasure.  He answered, certainly.  In a
matters of barbaric vertu, had brought together in Pupella whatever rare
maul, after repeatedly smiting the upper end of this iron rod, he placed the
may be secured; but out on privileges!  Let them be, sir.  Look aloft!
may roll, like young horses in new morning clover; and for some few fleeting
may; let the unseen, ambiguous synod in the air, or the vindictive princes
me and law. --Aye, aye, 'tis so. --Is heaven a murderer
me in the wide-slaughtering Typhoon, and the hushed burial of its after calm.
me measure, sir.  Measured for a leg!  good.  Well, it's not the first time.
me, sir, as a man-rope; something that weak souls may hold by.  Oh, sir, let
me; I've lowered for him once, and that has satisfied me.  There would be
means creatures of ill odor; nor can whalemen be recognised, as the people of
means the mould of his invested form.  The largest of the Tranque ribs, one
measured but little more than eight feet.  So that this rib only conveyed half
mechanical emergencies continually recurring in a large ship, upon a three
medals of the sun and tropic token-pieces.  Here palms, alpacas, and
medicine!
meditation.  It was in the left hand try-pot of the Pequod, with the
men fly the neighborhood of some lone, gigantic elm, whose very height and
men in the sea.  below in his hammock, ahab did not hear of this till grey
men intent on spying out more whales, which, if caught, infallibly will again
men never heeding their gaze for the lively revelry they were in.  And as
mentioned Leviathans, they have two firm fortresses, which, in all human
mentioned as the receptacle for the blanket-pieces, when stript and hoisted
mere shinbone --why it's easy as making hop-poles; only I should like to put a
midday, with a blinding sun, all crown-jewels; as I was groping, I say,
middle, over one of the compass-cards.  At first, the steel went round and
middle.  He's always under the Line--fiery hot, I tell ye!  He's looking this
middle.  Seems to me some sort of Equator cuts yon old man, too, right in his
midnight waves, which gently chafed the whale's broad flank, like soft surf
midnight, on the road running between two country towns, the blacksmith
might almost say, that this strange uncompromisedness in him involved a sort
might be considered as indirectly substantiated by what has been said of the
might be needed.
might be sailors' trousers buttons; but it afterwards turned out that they
might ensue to Nantucket and New Bedford.  But no more; enough has been said
mighty Pilot!  thou tellest me truly
mighty theme.  No great and enduring volume can ever be written on the flea,
mighty, heaven-abiding peaks, that almost seem the Trinity, in some faint
milky-ways of coral isles, and low-lying, endless, unknown Archipelagoes, and
mincer now stands before you invested in the full canonicals of his calling.
mind to pawn one arm for the sake of the privilege of giving decent burial to
mind.  We workers in woods make bridal-bedsteads and card-tables, as well as
mind; catch the turn there, and pass it.  Seems to me we are lashing down
mine beat against it; blood against fire!  So.
mine once was; so, now, here is only one distinct leg to the eye,
mine once.  He flies into diabolical passions sometimes.  Do ye see this
minute, this entire thing happened.  Damn him, cut!  roared Stubb; and so
minute.  Then rapidly pulling back towards the Pequod, and seeing Ahab
miscellaneous matters more directly pertaining to his special business; he
miscellaneous time i have been a stone-mason, and also a great digger of
miser 'll hoard ye soon!  Hish!  hish!  God goes 'mong the worlds
mishap was at the bottom of his temporary recluseness.  And not only this, but
missing boat; kindling a fire in her try-pots for a beacon; and every
modelled after the Thames Tunnel; then, legs with roots to 'em, to stay in
mollifier!  After having my hands in it for only a few minutes, my fingers
moment all the aghast mate's thoughts seemed theirs; they raised a half
moment, Ahab had forgotten that since the loss of his leg he had never once
moments, feel the cool dew of the life immortal on them.  Would to God these
money, and would be obliged to the reverend gentleman if for the future he
monkey-jackets and tarpaulins for me; I must mount a swallow-tail, and drive
monomaniac commander's soul.  So seemed it to me, as I stood at her helm,
monomaniac way whatever significance might lurk in them.  And some certain
monopolizing, heathenish old scamp, to be one day making legs, and the next
moon.  The sun hides not the ocean, which is the dark side of this earth,
moonlight on the piazza of the forecastle.  To hint to such musked mariners of
moons of Saturn, and take high abstracted man alone; and he seems a wonder,
more curious of such remains is part of a skull, which in the year
more deadly than the blasted one; in fine, Monsieur, he conjures us, as we
more fit to command a whale-ship than a St.  Jago monkey.  In fact, tell him
more recondite Nantucketers.  Whether owing to the almost omniscient
more scarce than the milk of queens.  To dress in the dark, and eat in the
more than one case occurred to ships in violent storms.  The
more?  in what rapt ether sails the world, of which the weariest will
morning watch, when the day was just breaking, and taking his hand, said
motion of a Sperm Whale's flukes above water dispenses a perfume, as when a
motionless Parsee's face.  Unobserved he rose and glided away; while,
mountains; so that even in his lowest swoop the mountain eagle is still
mounted on them, and passing additional lashings over the anchors there
mouth, Possession is half of the law: that is, regardless of how the thing
mouth, stood up in his boat; ere he could hopefully hail, Ahab's voice was
much by reason or by instinct, or simply because he had been tutored to it,
much diluted and pickled it to my taste.  The beef was fine --tough, but with
much marvelled at, that such things should be.  In instances where the
much of which covers the decks of those inferior souls who hunt that ignoble
much the same, Carpenter.  Hast thou ever helped carry a bier, and heard the
multitudinous, God-omnipresent, coral insects, that out of the firmament of
muscle, blood, and bowels.  Still more, for the ample fins, I here saw but a
musk-scented lady rustles her dress in a warm parlor.  What then shall I liken
musket that he pointed at me; --that one with the studded stock; let me touch
muskets, there strangely evolved an evil thought; but so blent with its
must not only face all the rage of the living whale, but --as we have
must up Burtons and break out.  Up Burtons and break out?  Now that we are
must, oh, you must, and you shall do this thing.  His son!  cried Stubb,
mutinous cry.  But dashing the rattling lightning links to the deck, and
muttered: Foolish toy!  babies' plaything of haughty Admirals, and
my ship, interrupted the one-armed captain, addressing Ahab; go on, boy.
my soapstone for example, will descend from any point in precisely the same
myself down to one small, compendious vertebra.  So.  Carpenter ( resuming
mystic significance, and, in some men, an archangelic grandeur; so do their
narrated to each other their unholy adventures, their tales of terror told in
nations to lower a whale-boat of any sort in the great South Sea.  The
natives pledge each other in bumpers of train oil.  The quantity of beer, too,
near; and every day when Ahab, coming from his cabin, cast his eyes aloft,
nearing Japan; heave-to here for a week to tinker a parcel of old hoops?
nearly six feet long; the second, third, and fourth were each successively
nearly sixty, had postponedly encountered that thing in sorrow's technicals
necessitated to leave that boat to its fate till near midnight, but, for the
needs exist after all humane ages are over.  But not alone has this Leviathan
negro went about the deck an idiot; such, at least, they said he was.  The
negroes, with glittering fiddle-bows of whale ivory, were presiding over the
neutral or good accompaniments that for the instant he hardly knew it for
never look so white as just after what they call an affair of oil.  Besides,
never weary?  Where is the foundling's father hidden?  Our souls are like
nevertheless, seemed growing fuller and fuller; they became of a strange
news, muttered the old Manxman.  But ere her commander, who, with trumpet to
night the ship's black hull still houses an illumination.  See with what
nightfall; but the windward one could not be reached till morning; and the
no children born to them for the other world, but, on the contrary, shall be
no external chimneys; they open direct from the rear wall.  And here let us
no means adequate; though, indeed, as touching all Ahab's deeper part, every
no mortal voice; and by that humming, we, too, who look on the loom are
no small curiosity a very strange, enigmatical object, which you would have
no steady unretracing progress in this life; we do not advance through fixed
no.  only in the heart of quickest perils; only when within the eddyings of
no; I must have a lantern.  Ho, ho!  That's it, hey?  Here are two, sir; one
none of thine own.  What!  how can you see better of a dark night than
nor was it without extreme difficulty that the agonizing wound was entirely
not a brave man; never said i was a brave man; I am a coward; and I sing to
not be his.  Ha!  is he muttering in his sleep?  Yes, just there, --in there,
not be invisibly and uninterpenetratingly standing precisely where thou now
not be, that since Adam's time they have degenerated?  Assuredly, we must
not for us to ask the why and wherefore of our work, unless it be too
not got hold of unchristian Solomon's wisdom yet.  But he who dodges hospitals
not hopefulness.  But one morning, turning to pass the doubloon, he seemed
not how came ye, hence callest thyself unbegotten; certainly knowest not thy
not in use, they are kept remarkably clean.  Sometimes they are polished
not inquiry.  Sir T. Browne, V. E.  It was a week or two after the last
not know that the colic is a noisy malady.  Oh, take medicine, take
not mean The Cooper, but The Merchant.  In short, this ancient and
not mine; he ordered the carpenter to make it; he had that club-hammer there
not only that, but you must live in it for the time.  It has an unspeakable,
not shot from the crown of his head, as if God had meant him to gaze on his
not stand to assert, that the Prophet Jonas was cast forth by the Whale at
not take it.  The lightning flashes through my skull; mine eye-balls ache and
not the miracle of his symmetrical tail; none of these would so surprise you,
not thou the leg-maker?  Look, did not this stump come from thy shop?  I
nothing better out of the world, get a good dinner out of it, at least.  And
notice the whirling velocity with which they revolved upon the cards; it is a
now a most meaning thing, that that old Greek, Prometheus, who made men, they
now almost incessantly invoked by the headsmen, and harpooneers, and bowsmen
now hammers at us to stave us, we can turn it into a fair wind that will
now in my voyagings; your doubloons of old Spain, your doubloons of Peru,
now listen.  What's the mighty difference between holding a mast's
now's the old Mogul, soliloquized Stubb by the try-works, he's been twigging
now, tenderly.  I'll have me --let's see --how many in the ship's company, all
now.  Signs and wonders; and the sun, he's always among 'em.  Hem, hem, hem;
now?  But if the currents carry ye to those sweet Antilles where the beaches
observed by Ahab had unaccountably escaped every one else; but its very
ocean darkness was intense.  But that darkness was licked up by the fierce
ocean's immeasureable burning-glass.  The sky looks lacquered; clouds there
odd inches; nor, indeed, should inches at all enter into a congenial
of
of Denderah, some fifty years ago, there was discovered upon the granite
of a church!  What's here?  Life buoy, sir.  Mr. Starbuck's orders.  Oh,
of a line-of-battle-ship.  Since I have undertaken to manhandle this
of a monstrous size are oftentimes cast up dead upon that shore.  The Common
of an old jacket.  Wonder if he means me? --complimentary! --poor lad! --I
of babyish to me, though I don't pretend to be a judge.  He says, Monsieur,
of citron.  Spite of reason, it is hard to keep yourself from eating it.  I
of clay reward for Pip; five feet high-- looks cowardly --quickest known by
of clear fire, whom on these seas I as Persian once did worship, till in the
of creation yielding up the live bodies of all the men, women, and children
of death.  How he wasted and wasted away in those few long-lingering days,
of difference between the male and female schools is still more characteristic
of doors; though, it is true, seldom in the open air.  I say, that the
of eating, and drinking, and laughing?  I will tell you.  The abounding good
of gin.  Now, whether these gin and beer harpooneers, so fuddled as one might
of great numbers of seals, and some young seals that had lost their dams,
of his readiness in ordinary duties: --repairing stove boats, sprung spars,
of his sires.  But upon investigation we find, that not only are the whales of
of in their after years; and all of them a care-killing competency.  But
of it taken to the windlass, and
of it, towards the pointed extremity, and then cutting two slits for
of line revolved, so stood with the angular log hanging downwards, till Ahab
of mixed shades and shadows, drowned dreams, somnambulisms, reveries; all
of my arm --came out nigh my wrist, and up i floated; --and that gentleman
of my own, touching the probable quantity of stock-fish, etc., consumed by
of my skull -- that is all wrinkles!  But, away with child's play; no more
of my youth was answered; that serene ocean rolled eastwards from me a
of poor Queequeg, as he quietly lay in his swaying hammock, and the rolling
of rum.  Um, um, um!
of something that looked like ripe Windsor soap, or rich mottled old cheese;
of tastefully-ornamented man-ropes; for at first they did not seem to bethink
of that fatal cork, forth flew the fiend, and shrivelled up his home.  Now,
of the Academy of Sciences setting down certain Iceland Whales
of the Greenland or Right whale was largely used in ladies' bodices.  But this
of the calm, and in the teeth of the tempest; they will imprecate curses
of the crown's ordinary revenue.  I know not that any other author has hinted
of the dead.  Give not thyself up, then, to fire, lest it invert thee,
of the gradual extinction of the Sperm Whale, for example, that in former
of the great stress of her plunging viciousness, had as last abandoned her;
of the grief of his life's drama.  He was an old man, who, at the age of
of the honor, being a very fast sailer and a noble craft every way.  I
of the mate, and his fiery cheeks, you would have almost thought that he had
of the matter; but by inference it seems to me that the sturgeon must be
of the middle ones, occupied that part of the fish which, in life, is greatest
of the paddles of his boat.  All by his own request, also, biscuits were
of the personified impersonal, a personality stands here.  Though but a
of the rigging, and more or less impeding the vessel's way in the water;
of the sea, poor Pip turned his crisp, curling, black head to the sun,
of the sexes.  Say you strike a Forty-barrel-bull --poor devil!  all his
of the skeleton; as it is by far the most complicated part; and as nothing
of the steel, or merely intended to augment the awe of the crew, is uncertain
of the true notion of the living
of the whale and the lady were reciprocally illustrative of each other.  These
of the wide wooden hearth, was the windlass.  This served for a sea-sofa.
of the yarn.  The professional gentleman thus familiarly pointed out, had
of their whale, line, harpoons, and boat.  Mr. Erskine was counsel for the
of them by Ahab.  It was far down the afternoon; and when all the spearings of
of them lowly rumbled, their fear of Ahab was greater than their fear of
of them.  Standing on this were the Tartarean shapes of the pagan harpooneers,
of these high mortal miseries, carries us at last among the sourceless
of understanding shall remain ( i.  e.  even while living) in the congregation
of unintelligence; for in his numerous trades, he did not seem to work so
off for the stranger.  Drawing across her bow, he perceived that in accordance
off in a huff.  The whole he can endure; at the parts he baulks.  Now I don't
officer of his ship.  However it was, his orders were executed; and the
officer's skewered feather, and trailing behind like his sash.  Why don't ye
often happens.  There was some apprehension, but no positive alarm, as yet.
oil is nearly scentless.  The truth is, that living or dead, if but decently
oil of forty fish.  Whereas, in the days of the old Canadian and Indian hunters
old Manxman, who was intently eyeing both him and the line, made bold to
old Perth now come and rivet these two hands together; the black one with the
old body like me, should never undertake to wade out into deep waters with
old man's bolted door, --a thin one, with fixed blinds inserted, in place of
old reelman to stagger strangely.  Hold hard!  Snap!  the overstrained line
on deck is the most satisfactory.  I say, just wring out my jacket skirts,
on the Englishman's shoulder, as he did so.  Aye, he was the cause of it, at
on the anvil, Perth passing to him the glowing rods, one after the other,
on the sea-coast, is also dug up in some far inland soils, whereas ambergris
on the sea; the first not made by mortal hands; and the visible wood of the
on the voyage, in order that a careful selection of the stoutest,
on two line-tubs, full of tow-lines.  A most malicious wag, that fellow.
on, over the iron lips.  It is a place also for profound mathematical
once more hailing a ship showing English colors, bearing down under the
one ahead; one astern.  These last three were brought alongside ere
one complete rod, received its final heat; and as perth, to temper it, plunged
one grain of sand will be to-morrow noon; and yet with thy impotence thou
one hand upon his bench bids him be seated there; but the poor fellow
one in the precisely opposite direction --the ship had not only been
one inserted into the kelson.  Deliberately standing before the binnacle, and
one missing whale-boat in the height of the whaling season?  See, Flask, only
one of the most extraordinary creatures which the mutations of the globe have
one of these Dutch whalemen, including the short voyage to and from the
one place; then, arms three
one ship went cheerily before the breeze, the other stubbornly fought against
one star-belled tambourine.  So, though in the clear air of day, suspended
one to him in the grey
one volume; but whose mysteries not even himself could read, though his own
one?  aye, blacksmith, it is the one; aye, man, it is unsmoothable; for
only makes a sign to the sign and bows himself; there is a sun on the coin
only the more affected some of them, because most mariners cherish a very
only think of the gigantic involutions of his intestines, where they lie in
oozy, stringy affair, most frequently found in the tubs of sperm, after a
open-and-shut carpenter, was, after all, no mere machine of an automaton.  If
operas than hell; calls Cowper, Young, Pascal, Rousseau, poor devils all of
opinion, than all the crews in ten thousand ships now sailing the seas.  Why,
or by any intermixture of all these, even or uneven; but merely by a kind of
or four years' voyage, in uncivilized and far-distant seas.  For not to speak
or it's somebody else, that's certain.  Ahab ( advancing). (During the
or some dams that had lost their cubs, must have risen nigh the ship and kept
or the Archer.  No: he don't know what to make of the doubloon; he takes it
or undeveloped.  With books the same.  The truest of all men was the Man of
orchard twig.  In various enchanted attitudes, like the standing, or
orders to have the leg completed that night; and to provide all the fittings
originally harpooned the lady, and had once had her fast, and only by reason
ornaments; but ambergris is soft, waxy, and so highly fragrant and spicy,
ostentatiously put on the aspect of interpreting between them.  What shall I
other animals sculptured on the oldest Egyptian and Nineveh tablets, by the
other good-humoredly.  Come aboard!  Thou are too damned jolly.  Sail on.
other grand and lofty things; look here, --three peaks as proud as Lucifer.
other man aloft on the look-out.  But though when she had thus sailed a
other vessels had gone entire months without securing a single fish.  Not only
other, its numerous cabalistical contrivances, he pondered again, and
others."  And damn me, Ahab, but thou actest right; live in the game, and
our gloom, the sun of Righteousness still shines a beacon and a hope.  If we
our old man has thought of that.  It's worth trying.  Yes, I'm for it; and
out a most unusually long tow-line.  Presently a breeze sprang up; Stubb
out abroad among the crew, the old man with a rigid laugh exclaimed, I have
out as neat a leg now as ever ( sneezes) scraped to a lady in a parlor.  Those
out bone legs by the cord.  Halloa, there, you Smut!  bear a hand there with
out of the boat; and in such a way, that part of the slack whale line coming
out of you like billiard-balls.  The bread --but that couldn't be helped;
out one Pip, who's now been missing long: I think he's in those far
out.  Shall I call that wise or foolish, now; if it be really wise it has a
outer aspect; or separately and in detail upon some few interior structural
outrageous moral injustice for one party to claim possession of a whale
outside, or thrown down into the sea, as occasion may require.  The rods!
outwards?  No, but put a sky-light on top of his head to illuminate inwards.
outyell the Typhoons.  What cares Ahab?  Owners, owners?  Thou art always
over the sea some four or five miles apart, on parallel lines, and so sweeping
over the ship's stern.  Were ever such things done before with a coffin?  Some
overladen brooks; in his very sleep, his ringing cry ran through the vaulted
oversee the business.  All ready there?  Off hatch, then, and start her.  You
overspread by tens of thousands the prairies of Illinois and Missouri, and
owen, the english anatomist, it turned out that this alleged reptile was a
own flat commands, this is all thou breathest.  Aye, and say'st the men
own smoke!  for his smoke is horrible to inhale, and inhale it you must, and
own supper of game.
pale, forked fire.  As the silent harpoon burned there like a serpent's
pall-bearers.  Ha!  Such a sight we shall not soon see.  Believe it or not,
panic-striking business in which he had somehow unaccountably become
pants beneath it; and would not willingly remember, that this velvet paw but
paper read before the London Geological Society, pronounced it, in substance,
paracelsus about what it is that maketh the best musk.  Also forget not the
parchment-like poke or stomach skin of the black fish, gave forth a loud roar
part of my share of this whale.  It is his.  Won't the Duke be content
part of the description by rehearsing --singing, if I may -- the romantic
parties (meaning himself and mate) and concluded by inviting Stubb down into
partly, I think, at their expense, the British government was induced to send
parts of my body to remain a blank page for a poem I was then composing --at
parts of the twisted tattooing on his body.  And this tattooing, had been the
parts.  Sir Clifford's whale has been articulated throughout; so that, like a
passage through such unfrequented waters, descrying no ships, and ere long,
passed silently, and bowing over his head towards the fire, seemed invoking
passing through those fancy mints, so Spanishly poetic.  It so chanced that
passionlessness.  At length the desired observation was taken; and with his
paternity lies in their grave, and we must there to learn it.  And that same
pauselessly active in uncounted modes, still eternally holds its peace, and
paw; we escape, and hail Virgo, the Virgin!  that's our first love; we marry
peculiar ground; that man was swallowed up in the deep.  But few, perhaps,
peculiar strength, fitted to sustain the weight of an almost solid mass of
pedigree like Leviathan?  Ahab's harpoon had shed older blood than the
pelt of a boa.  This done he turns the pelt inside out, like a pantaloon leg;
pencil upon his ivory leg, Ahab soon calculated what his latitude must be at
people of the whole globe who so harpooned him.  In
perceived, respected sir --said the imperturbable godly-looking Bunger,
perfume, which flowed through the tide of bad smells without being absorbed
perhaps improving it in quality.
perhaps one of the most remarkable incidents in all the business of whaling.
perhaps vain to surmise exactly why it was, that as respecting Starbuck,
perhaps, might have been secured were it not for impatient Ahab's loud command
peril, and some expense, and is all that to go to the Duke's benefit; we
perilous fluid into the soil; so the kindred rod which at sea some ships
perpendicular ladder of nailed cleets there, and swinging towards him a pair
perpendicularly chopping it into the portable horse-pieces.  This spade is
philosophies from thee!  Some unknown conduits from the unknown worlds must
phosphorescence, like a far away constellation of stars.  Relieved against
pilot.  And when thou art so gone before --if that ever befall --then ere I
pine tree.  My father, in old Tolland county, cut down a pine tree once, and
pitch-pot.  Away!  What possesses thee to this?  Make a life-buoy of the
pitched down her bowsprit, he turned to eye the bright sun's rays produced
piteous sound was heard.  Oh, Pip!  thy wretched laugh, thy idle but
place on the sea.  Aye, lighting from the boat to the deck, thus I
place with it; that is, carpenter, my old lost leg; the flesh and blood one,
place, I wish to lay before you a particular, plain statement, touching the
place, some merchantmen, and many whalemen, especially when cruising,
place, when Ahab, who had been intently watching for this result, stepped
place.  The first time Stubb lowered with him, Pip evinced much nervousness;
placed over him.  The head part turned over with a leather hinge, and there
placed the death-tube in its rack, and left the place.  He's too sound
places.  You'll do to give us the bare words and facts, but we come in to
plague, when the living are incompetent to bury the departed.  So intolerable
plain of unimaginable, taking terrors, and wonderful, new-life adventures;
plain, business-like, but still half humorous manner, cursed Pip officially;
plainly heard without the walls, bursting from the opened casements.  Thereby
plaintiffs, because they had merely abandoned it to save their lives; but
plaintiveness, such inwreathing orisons curled up in that rosy air, that it
plantation of Judge Creagh, in Alabama.  The awe-stricken credulous slaves in
planted by the recentest race of men, and lave the faded but still gorgeous
plausible confirmation in the fate of one of their number that morning.  At
pleadings, and the counter pleadings, being duly heard, the very learned judge
plight than the Pequod's, man.  Yet I don't stop to plug my leak; for who can
pocket, and drawing near to Ahab's arm.  Avast!  roared Ahab, dashing him
pods, were encountered much oftener than at present, and, in consequence,
point at best; whencesoe'er I came; wheresoe'er I go; yet while I earthly
point of real historical interest.  How long, prior to the year of our Lord 0083
point of view.  Applied to any other creature than the Leviathan --to an ant or
point! --his pulse makes these planks beat! --sir! --taking a lancet from his
pointing his ivory
points, and alike indifferent and without respect in all.  Teeth he
policeman or beadle, called a Lord Warden.  Holding the office directly from
policy, just as though it were loaded with powder barrels aft and boxes of
politely bowed, and straightway went on to do his captain's bidding.  It was
ponderous knees of iron bracing it on all sides, and screwing it down to the
poor little negro was assailed by yells and execrations from the crew.
poring over his dead attenuated skeleton, stretched in this peaceful wood.
positive havoc has already very seriously diminished their battalions.  But
possessed the privilege of a less banned approach to him; to that timid
possesses a singularly cleansing virtue.  This is the reason why the decks
possibly be humorously grounded upon some presumed congeniality.  And thus
post.  Are they overboard?  drop them over, fore and aft.  Quick!  Avast!
posterity of Joy.  For, not to hint of this: that it is an inference from
prating to me, Starbuck, about those miserly owners, as if the owners were my
preceding the superficial formations.  And though none of them precisely
precious jolly rascal.) But, heave ahead, boy, I'd rather be killed by you
precious oil and bone; and in fantasy sipping rare tea with their wives, and
precious sperm in him, but, hark ye, he's best let alone; don't you think
precise meridian.  Meantime while his whole attention was absorbed, the Parsee
precise origin of ambergris remained, like amber itself, a problem to the
presaged.  They declared that now they knew the reason of those wild shrieks
present human population of the globe.  Wherefore, for all these things, we
present matter of his leg, he took plain practical procedures; --he called the
present of a little oil for dear charity's sake.  For what oil he'll get from
present, and to come, with all the revolving panoramas of empire on earth,
presto!  poor Pip came all foaming up to the chocks of the boat,
presumed great longevity of whales, their probably attaining the age of a
previous, and the great tackles were still aloft, and the massive curved
previously chased or killed by another party.  But others are by no means so
primogenitures of the gods; so that, in the face of all the glad, hay-making
principle which entitled the headsman of old to the garments in which the
principles laid down in the twin whaling laws previously quoted, and applied
privilege of discoursing upon the joists and beams; the rafters, ridge-pole,
probability, will for ever remain impregnable.  And as upon the invasion of
probed, it turns out always that in their wholly forgotten childhood those
proceeding of decanting off his oil into the casks and striking them down into
proceeds cylindrically to remove its dark pelt, as an African hunter the
professor in Queen Nature's granite-founded College; but methinks he's too
profound
progression every hour.  It had been thus with the Pequod.  The wooden reel
progressive progeny of griefs beyond the grave; not at all to hint of this,
projecting from it here and there; the whole terminating in a symmetrical
prolonged squeezing, and subsequent decanting.  I hold it to be the
promising an event should so soon have falsified the evil portents preceding
prompts the English railways to be at the expense of a separate car, specially
prone upon the ground, and insensible; by some unknown, and seemingly
proof of the fact that the above-mentioned law is still in force, I proceed to
properly, in set way, have been disclosed before.  With many other particulars
property under certain limitations, and nominally supplying the tenth branch
proportion of the entire extent
proprietors call the only perfect specimen of a Greenland or River Whale in
prosecuted in the short summer of that climate, so that the whole cruise of
prudential policy which, under the circumstance, imperiously forbade the
pudding-heads should never grant premises. --How long before this leg is
pulling hand-over-hand upon one of the running parts of the tackle.  Soon he
pulling, or sailing, or paddling after the whales, or for an interlude of
punctures were made in the heathen flesh, and the White Whale's barbs were
purchased, was duly brought to the Pequod's side, where all those cutting and
purse!  Dropping his spade, he thrust both hands in, and drew out handfuls
pursuit being the ancient and outbranching trunk of all those numerous
put to the end, to knock some one's brains out with, I suppose, as he tried
putting my fingers to the lids and mechanically stretching them still further
pyres.  It smells like the left wing of the day of judgment; it is an argument
quadrant, the thunder turns the needles, and now the mad sea parts the
qualities, my royal friend Tranquo, being gifted with a devout love for all
quality, and by no means of the nature of attar-of-rose.  Coming still nearer
quarter of an acre of fine brains; and let me see --shall I order eyes to see
quarter-boat, his ivory leg plainly revealed to the stranger captain, who
quarter-deck enormous masses of the whale's head are profanely piled; great
quarter-deck!  The greater idiot ever scolds the lesser, muttered Ahab,
queens, reigned over everything.  The sea was as a crucible of molten gold,
queer; he's queer, says Stubb; he's queer--queer, queer; and keeps dinning
quickly enough resent in a younger man; aye!  and in a happier, Captain
quickly lowered to Ahab, who at once comprehending it all, slid his solitary
raging gale, had been found dead and stranded, with his head against a
raised, it must be in a month and a day, when the sun stands in some one of
ran shuddering through the air.  Started from his slumbers, Ahab, face to
rapacious landlord is the widow's last mite but a Fast-Fish?  What is yonder
rate of ten gallons the hour; and when the squall came (for it's squally off
rays moved on in stacks.  Emblazonings, as of crowned Babylonian kings and
reached by a Man upon a Camel's Back.  This Rib (says John Leo) is said to
reader, and if you be a Nantucketer, and a whaleman, you will silently worship
real stature, and seemed the black cloud from which the thunder had come.
really received the blaze of the levelled tube.  But, mastering his emotion,
really so, sir?  It is, man.  Look, put thy live leg here in the place where
reap the fruit of his unrighteous cunning.  Seizing his sharp boat-spade, he
reason why the grave-digger made music must
reason would leave me on the long intolerable voyage.  What, then, remains?
received a half-splintering shock.  And when after gaining his own deck, and
recklessness, Ahab did at times give careful heed to the condition of that
recognized by ahab for a nantucketer he knew.  But no formal salutation was
recondite matters, your best way is at once to descend into the blubber-room,
redness, the madness, the ghastliness of others.  The continual sight of the
reefed, and a storm-trysail was set further aft; so that the ship soon went
reelingly hurled to the deck by its spasmodic motions, even though preventer
refer to, to test my accuracy.  There is a Leviathanic Museum, they tell me,
reflection in the vacant pupils of thy eyes.  Oh God!  that man should be a
reforming the shape of clumsy-bladed oars, inserting bull's
regular semi-weekly duty to conduct a hose into the hold, and drench the
rejoined Stubb, and with that he soon mounted to the deck.  There a queer
related how the great leviathan is afar off descried from the mast-head; how
relative proportions in which they are drawn, just as plainly prove that the
remains to magnify him in an archaeological, fossiliferous, and antediluvian
remark --that I myself --that is to say, Jack Bunger, late of the reverend
remorselessly dragged there by the line, which had taken several turns around
remote posterity are said to have entered the Ark; all the Fossil Whales
replaced in his hammock.  But ere this was done, Pip, who had been slily
reply.  No; only heard of him; but don't believe in him at all, said the
representing the long eastern coasts of the Japanese islands -- Niphon,
reptile of the marsh perpetuates his kind as inevitably as the sweetest
researches in the leviathanic histories, I stumbled upon an ancient Dutch
resemblances to the existing breeds of sea-monsters; but at the same time
reserved for the accommodation of royalty.  In the first place, in curious
reservoir is kept replenished with water as fast as it evaporates.  There are
rest, blame not Stubb too hardly.  The thing is common in that fishery; and
restlessness.  To any meditative Magian rover, this serene Pacific, once
returned to them.  Why, let me see; yes, you may as well tell him now that --
returning the gun to the rack, he went to the deck.  Thou art but too good a
revealed in the capricious emblazonings of the works.  As they
revealing only the tops of her masts, seems struggling forward, not though
revelation partook more of significant darkness than of explanatory light.
reversed needles there, and horizontally suspended the sail-needle by its
ribs diminished, till the tenth and last only spanned five feet and some
rich, mottled tint, with a bestreaked snowy and golden ground, dotted with
ride in a spring-carriage ashore.  But the awful lonesomeness is intolerable.
rigging, to dry.  Ere long, it is taken down; when removing some three feet
rigging, with one nostril he unthinkingly snuffed the sugary musk from the
rigging; but if thou art a brave man thou wilt hold thy peace.  But I am
right hand pressed hard upon them.] I own thy speechless, placeless power;
right side, fortune's favorites sail close by us, we, though all adroop
riots.  Forward, there!  Heave the log!  Two seamen came.  The golden-hued
rise) was a wilderness and a virgin, the same number of moccasined men, for
riveted glance fastened upon the riveted gold coin there, he still wore the
roaring and devouring lion.  Ship, old ship!  my old head shakes to think of
rods for its shank; then wind, and twist, and hammer these twelve together
rolled in long slow billows of mighty bulk, and striving in the Pequod's
room of it; many is the time the poor fellows, just buttoning the necks of
ropes and hawsers; chained down to ring-bolts on this cabin floor; he would
rose-bud, eh?  he cried with his hand to his nose, that will do very well;
round border it bore the letters, REPUBLICA DEL ECUADOR: QUITO.  So this
round gold is but the image of the rounder globe, which, like a magician's
round so, that my boat's crew could only trim dish, by sitting all their
round world itself but an empty cipher, except to sell by the cartload, as
round, quivering and vibrating at either end; but at last it settled to its
round, to the horizon, like gold-beater's skin hammered out to the extremest.
routine again.  Oh!  the metempsychosis!  Oh!  Pythagoras, that in bright
rover softly feels a certain filial, confident, land-like feeling towards the
royal friend Tranquo, king of Tranque, one of the Arsacides.  For being at
rudimental manufacturing stages, is the worst.  I should like to conclude the
rule --pointing at it with the marlingspike -- that is the captain's work,
rulers, nail-filers, counter-sinkers.  So, if his superiors wanted to use the
rusty casks lie about, as in a brewery yard; the smoke from the try-works has
ruthless detestation peculiar to military navies and armies.
sacramental act so burned by thee, that to this hour I bear the scar; I now
sagged down in one long festoon; the tugging log was gone.  I crush the
said I not so?  Nor was it wrung from me; nor do I now drop these links.
said that in a whaling voyage the first fire in the try-works has to be fed
said, that whenever it has been convenient to consult one in the course of
said: Thou hast outraged, not insulted me, Sir; but for that I ask thee not
said; and with fascinated eyes they awaited whatever magic might follow.  But
sailed with thee along the Peruvian coast last voyage -- and, foolish as I am,
sailor takes a fancy to wear shark-bone ear-rings: the carpenter drills his
sailors, had all died of a fever caught from a blasted whale they had brought
sailors, without some shudderings and evil portents.  Men, said he,
sails fill out.  So seemed it with the Pequod.  For next day after
sails; the whole world boomed before the wind.  Muffled in the full morning
salutation to the possibilities of the immense Remote, the Wild, the Watery,
same aspect of nailed firmness, only dashed with a certain wild longing, if
same bone is not in the tail; it is in the head, which is a sad mistake for
same perilous seas, gropes he not his way by mere dead reckoning of the
same precious fluid; and nailed to her main truck was a brazen lamp.  As was
same waves wash the moles of the new-built Californian towns, but yesterday
saw a falling phantom in the air; and looking down, a little tossed heap of
saw the crushed copper sight-tubes of the quadrant he had the day before
saw the sun's rearward place, and how the same yellow rays were blending with
say to him first?  said he.  Why, said Stubb, eyeing the velvet vest and the
say, should have been a blacksmith, and animated them with fire; for what's
say, why dost thou not go mad?  How can'st thou endure without being mad?  Do
says -- Hands off!  this fish, my masters, is a Fast-Fish.  I seize it as the
scene presented itself.  The sailors, in tasselled caps of red worsted, were
scene.  At last, when the ship drew near to the outskirts, as it were, of
scepticism, then disbelief, resting at last in manhood's pondering repose of
scholars.  So, to my fond faith, poor Pip, in this strange sweetness of his
schools are larger than the harem schools.  Like a mob of young collegians,
sciences, and all the generations of whales, and men, and mastodons, past,
screaming, and yelling, and fighting around them.  Stubb was beginning to look
screwed leg of his table, and with a long pruning-hook of a jack-knife in his
scrupulous.  Some fifty years ago there was a curious case of whale-trover
sea had jeeringly kept his finite body up, but drowned the infinite of his
sea roared and split with the thunder, and blazed with the lightning, that
sea seemed gently rocking him to his final rest, and the ocean's invisible
sea!  But suddenly reined back by some counter thought, he hurried towards
sea, freighted with these vesper hymns.  Soothed again, but only soothed to
sea, in whose eternal tossings the wild fowl finds his only rest.  Born of
sea-coal ashes --mind ye that, Mr. Starbuck --sea-coal, not your common
sea-going ship carpenters, and more especially those belonging to whaling
sea; that he regards it as so much flowery earth; and the distant ship
seam like this, blacksmith, sweeping one hand across his ribbed brow;;if
season, and that particular venison season contemporary with an unusually
seductive god, bowing your head to Pan.  But few thoughts of Pan stirred
see how pale he looks --pale in the very buttons of his eyes --look --it wasn't
see!  aye, he enters the sign of storms, the equinox!  and but six months
seem
seemed thereby bringing two remote associations together, for that vial was
seems almost to derive an added preciousness and enhancing glories, by
seems but uncertain twilight to me.  Will ye never have done, Carpenter, with
seems that some honest mariners of Dover, or Sandwich, or some one of the
seen there, lying along lengthwise in the lee scuppers.  Not the wondrous
seen, that the tape-measure gives seventy-two feet for the skeleton of a
seen, what was thus temporarily subdued in him, in the end was destined to
seen; though she then paused to lower her spare boats to pull all around her;
segment of the partitioned zodiac, the signs all marked with their usual
self.  Great pains, small gains for those who ask the world to solve them; it
semi-intelligent faces, seen peeringly uprising from the water alongside.  In
senate of the dead.  Captain Peleg's bruited reason for this thing appeared by
sensible, that's a fact.  And I am about drenched with this spray.  Never
separately go about in quest of settlements, that is, harems.  Another point
service to us.  Hearing this, the captain vowed that they were the grateful
sets down the Right Whale at one hundred metres, three hundred and
seventy tons for the largest sized Greenland whale of sixty feet in length;
several times, the mate still holding the rod as before.  Then going through
severe!  chimed in the patient himself; then suddenly altering his voice,
sharp as hone can make it; the spademan's feet are shoeless; the thing
sheath, he suspended its sharp edge over the line, and turning towards Stubb,
sheet of blubber, and strives to hold it from slipping, as the ship pitches
sheltered it.  The ribs were hung with trophies; the vertebrae were carved
ship Ahab sails in, that ship should pay something extra on its insurance
ship new-laid upon the stocks, when only some twenty of her naked bow-ribs are
ship's prow for the equator.  In good time the order came.  It was hard upon
ship's stern unprovided with a buoy, when by certain strange signs and
ship's stern, with my back to her prow and the compass.  In an instant I faced
ship, that wight is certain to be made a ship-keeper.  It was so in the
ship, the Rachel, was descried, bearing directly down upon the Pequod, all her
ship-keepers are as hardy fellows as the men comprising the boats' crews.  But
ship; and may my parson forget me, and the devil remember me, if I ever lose
ships in London, more than two centuries ago.  Because those whalemen did not
ships that ever regularly hunted the Sperm Whale; though for some score of
ships, But he only smacks his lips, A tastin' of this flip, -- Such a funny,
ships, English and American, and thus the vast Sperm Whale grounds of the
shoes of racing horses.  Horse-shoe stubbs, sir?  Why, Captain Ahab, thou
shook their iron manes and scowled with their thunder-clotted brows upon the
shortness of the season in those Icy Seas, and the sudden and violent storms
should only be treated of in imperial folio.  Not to tell over again his
should regard a chapel as an object of vertu.  He laughed.  But more I
should say might be somewhere within nine fathoms long.  And all from looking
should see these too-favoring sights.  Look!  here, far water-locked; beyond
should we longer cherish any social acerbities, or know the slightest
showed the disabled masts fluttering here and there with
shrivelled
sick man was replaced in his hammock.  But now that he had apparently made
sick men; and throughout a care-free lifetime swears by Rabelais as passing
sickness, a wondrous testimony to that immortal health in him which could not
side of this waning savage, and saw as strange things in his face, as any
side, and getting into his boat, hailed the Guernsey-man to this effect,
side, lit by a dull lantern, a space has been left clear for the workmen.
side; and he then supported it by saying, that though the gentleman had
sidelong-rushing sea.  The Manxman took the reel, and holding it high up, by
sides.  But had Stubb really abandoned the poor little negro to his fate?  No;
sideways impelled by unvarying trade winds, over waves monotonously mild;
sieve.  Bad work, bad work!  Mr. Starbuck, said Stubb, regarding the wreck,
sight of Stubb's face slowly beginning to glimmer into sight.  Glancing
sight of it.  Flip?  Did I say we had flip?  Yes, and we flipped it at the
sight that hardly any one can behold without some sort of unwonted emotion.
significance lurks in all things, else all things are little worth, and the
silence, Ahab stood apart; and every time the tetering ship loweringly
sinecure.  But not so.  Because the Lord Warden is busily employed at times
sing away, if thou must!  I don't half understand ye: what's in the wind?
sink, with all the crew!  Great God, where art thou?  Shall I?  shall I? --The
sir, said the frightened steersman.  Thou liest!  smiting him with his
sir, who is the Lord Warden?  The Duke.  But the duke had nothing to do
sir.  And I was not speaking or thinking of that at all.  Begone!  Let it
sir; how that a dismasted man never entirely loses the feeling of his old
sir; ship's-crier; ding, dong, ding!  Pip!  Pip!  Pip!  One hundred pounds
sites of populous river-capitals, where now the polite broker sells you land
six-barrel casks; and while, perhaps, the ship is pitching and rolling this
sixty cigars.  I wont smoke dirty pipes like Stubb, but I like cigars, and
sixty or seventy minutes calmly awaiting their uprising; though with but
skeleton dimensions I shall now proceed to set down are
skeleton of a Sperm Whale, but of moderate size, by no means of the
skirts of Asiatic lands, older than Abraham; while all between float
skull echoed --and seizing that lucky chance, I quickly concluded my own
skull, spout-hole, jaw, teeth, tail, forehead, fins, and divers other parts,
skulls, tusks, jaws, ribs, and vertebrae, all characterized by partial
sky-sail poles, I'd sway them up now.  Sir? --in God's name! --sir?  Well.
slate the course steered by the ship, as well as the presumed average rate of
sleep.  There's a sermon now, writ in high heaven, and the sun goes through
sleepers, and under-pinnings, making up the frame-work of leviathan; and
slender links, so as to be the more readily hauled up into the chains
slices as possible, inasmuch as by so doing the business of boiling out the
sliding along beneath the surface as before; but, alas!  never more to rise
slightest suspicion concerning the ambergris.  He therefore held his peace on
slightest symptom of open disaffection, however transient, in the important
slightly bowing to Ahab -- is apt to be facetious at times; he spins us many
slipping backward on the deck, his uplifted eyes caught the flames; and
slow and talked very fast, and seemed in anything but a good humor.  All
slumberers in their beds; the ever-rolling waves but made so by their
slunk away.  In his fiery eyes of scorn and triumph, you then saw Ahab in all
small are they.  I. A Fast-Fish belongs to the party fast to it.  II.  A
small success for their pains.  At such times, under an abated sun; afloat
smallest, where the spine tapers away into the tail, is only two inches in
smells of it himself, like a hot musket's powder-pan.  At last the shank, in
snatching the burning harpoon, Ahab waved it like a torch among them;
snuffing; this man's blood --bring the thermometer; --it's at the boiling
so -- the coffin, I mean.  Dost thou hear me?  Rig it.  And shall I nail down
so long afloat this voyage, the log and line had but very seldom been in use.
so near her and so long, as themselves to fall a prey.
so saying he started for the quarter-deck.  By this time the faint air had
so strangely respectful and cautious that
so styled by the English law writers -- the whale and the sturgeon; both royal
so, Captain? --glancing at the ivory leg.  He is.  But he will still be
so, deprived of one leg, and the strange ship of course being altogether
so.  But Ahab is lord over the level load-stone
so.  For nothing was this man more remarkable, than for a certain impersonal
so; he's beginning.  I see nothing here, but a round thing made of gold,
soapstone diligently circling round me, that I was first indirectly struck by
sober one; he was dressed in a faded blue woollen frock or shirt, and patched
socket of the iron.  A coil of new tow-line was then unwound, and some fathoms
soft sobbings, took him by the hand; in the other, holding his tambourine.
softness of lustre; and mildly but deeply looked out at you there from his
soil the old oaken furniture, and drop at least one small grease-spot
solar, lunar, or astral contrivances ashore.  It is sweet as early grass
sold, and his Grace the Duke of Wellington received the money.  Thinking that
solely hung the responsibilities of some other family, and left the worse
solemn; bowing over still further his chronically broken back, he toiled
soliloquized Starbuck suddenly, heedless of Stubb's question.  The gale that
solitudes, in some glad May-time, when the flowers of the woods are plucked.
some curse or some blessing on the toil.  But, as Ahab looked up, he slid
some fine specimens of fin-backs and other whales.  Likewise, I have heard
some idea of, by imagining all the grave-yards, cemeteries, and family vaults
some illuminated shrine of canonized kings and counsellors.  There they lay in
some moments stood, or sat, or leaned all transfixedly listening, like the
some small degree be deemed, under the circumstances, a rather hard one, an
some small strange motions with it --whether indispensable to the magnetizing
some small violence to his own person.  He had lighted with such energy upon a
some time afterwards, when coming back to the Line, we heard about Moby Dick
somebody else.  He says, Monsieur, that he's very happy to have been of any
something vile to the death-devouring sharks.  No: he desired a canoe like
something worth a good deal more than oil; yes, ambergris.  I wonder now if
sometimes go aloft in a transition state), whether it was thus with the man,
sometimes, they say; but that's only haphazard-like.  Then, a short, little
somewhat vain-gloriously, sailing round among the widely-separated ships on
somewhere.  Yes; and many is the time, when, after the severest uninterrupted
songster of the grove; so, equally with every felicity, all miserable events
soon as filled with the sperm; and when the proper time arrived, this same
soot flies!  This must be the remainder the Greek made the Africans of.
soothing scenes, however temporary, fail of at least as temporary an effect on
sorts lying about the bench.  Forward, the red flame of the forge is seen,
soul.  Not drowned entirely, though.  Rather carried down alive to wondrous
sounded, we didn't see him again for some time; in fact, as I before hinted,
sounding-board; and what in all things makes the sounding-board is this
spar, but it will be still pricking him at times.  May I humbly ask if it be
spars and rigging, the effect upon the needle has at times been still more
spars thickly clustering with men.  At the time the Pequod was making good
speak through it.  For even so it is in all material factories.  The spoken
speak.  Sir, I mistrust it; this line looks far gone, long heat and wet
speak.  The yet levelled musket shook like a drunkard's arm against the panel;
speaking to, I should like to know?  Shall I keep standing here? ( aside).
spectacle observable in all sperm whales dying --the turning sunwards of the
speed through the water; but as the broad-winged windward stranger shot nigh
speedy enterprise.  But now it's done, it looks much like Pompey's Pillar.
sperm of kindness.  Would that I could keep squeezing that sperm for ever!  For
sperm was carefully manipulated ere going to the try-works, of which anon.  It
sperm whale bone, terminating in a wooden head like a mallet.  Man my boat!
sperm-oil, d'ye see; and so, all that sperm will work up into the masts,
spine, all that had been once wrapped round with tons of added bulk in flesh,
spinning him out to the uttermost coil of his bowels.  Having already described
spire, forming solid courses of heavy masonry.  The largest, a middle one, is
spirits.  Now, as it shortly turned out, what made this incident of the
spoiled thee?  Thou seem'st to hold.  Or, truer perhaps, life holds thee; not
sporty, gamy, jesty, joky, hoky-poky lad, is the Ocean, oh!  Avast Stubb,
spots of the deepest crimson and purple.  It is plums of rubies, in pictures
sprang from his luckless mishap, almost invariably irritated or exasperated
squeeze ourselves
standest; aye, and standing there in thy spite?  In thy most solitary hours,
standing on this to-morrow; he'll be taking altitudes on it.  Halloa!  I
starboard side, and thus come close to the blasted whale; and so talk over
stars to be painted upon the blade of his every oar; screwing each oar in his
startled by the unfamiliar spectacle.  Furthermore: concerning these last
statistical tables are parchingly dry in the reading; not so in the present
steadily turning upon the crew, as the mate handed him the things he had
steady binnacle lamp illuminating it.  Nothing seemed before me but a jet
stealthily, and half sideways looking, he placed the loaded musket's end
steed.  Standing between the knight-heads, Starbuck watched the Pequod's
steel shoulder-blades; there's a pedlar aboard with a crushing pack.  Sir?
steel the great Sperm Whale; and that for half a century they were the only
stepped on board of any vessel at sea but his own, and then it was always by
stepping, or running skeletons in Herculaneum, others remained rooted to the
stern, a whale-boat was suspended, bottom down; and hanging captive from the
stern.  Trumpet to mouth, the old man was standing in his hoisted
sterns on the outer gunwale.  Presently up breaches from the bottom of the sea
stick of whale's jaw-bone for a wife!  And this is his leg; he'll stand on
sticking in her.  Now in the present case Erskine contended that the examples
still retained it on deck, fast lashed to ringbolts by the foremast; being
stolidity as it were; impersonal, I say; for it so shaded off into the
stolidity discernible in the whole visible world; which while
storms, the Typhoon.  It will sometimes burst from out that cloudless sky,
strandings, ahab exclaimed, good!  and now for the seizings.  At one
strange anomaly touching the general law of Fast and Loose-Fish, it is here
strange fact that of all things of ill-savor, Cologne-water, in its
strangely eyeing the particular object before him.  When he halted before the
stranger Captain immediately went on to reveal his object in boarding the
stranger ship, and face set like a flint to his own, Ahab stood upright till
stranger.  But that did in nowise mend the matter, or at all soften the hard
strength but render it so much the more unsafe, because so much the more a
strenuous exertions of Starbuck and Stubb --one engaged forward and the other
stretched to a great tension.  Pressing his foot upon it, till the rope
stretching, yawned a little bit, and then springing into the head of his
stricken whale started on a fierce run, the line swiftly straightened; and
strike that?  Oh, none but cowards send down their brain-trucks in tempest
string of twisted oakum slowly unwinding from a large roll of it placed in the
struck, killed, seized, and finally appropriated it before the very eyes of
subject.  for at that time, and indeed until a comparatively late day, the
subjects, contained a very interesting account of its whale fishery.  And in
subservient.  Where wert thou born?  In the little rocky Isle of Man, sir.
substance which is scraped off the back of the Greenland or right whale, and
substance, and so important as an article of commerce, that in
substance, said, that the cause of his sudden convalescence was this; --at a
subterranean parts of the whale?  Did erudite Stubb, mounted upon your
subterraneous confinement, resolutely manhandle the clumsiest casks and see
sudden, now; but squalls come sudden in hot latitudes.  I've heard that the
suddenly leaped to his feet, threw out arms and legs, gave himself a good
suffered to drag a whole ship's company down to doom with him? --Yes, it would
suffering man; and man, though idiotic, and knowing not what he does, yet
sufficient distance to gain the presumed place of the absent ones when last
suggested to Ahab that wild exclamation of his, when one morning turning away
summer-cool weather that now reigned in these latitudes, and in preparation
sun and the equatorial try-works; when, on the heel of all this, they have
sun and whale both stilly died together; then, such a sweetness and such
sun hides not Virginia's Dismal Swamp, nor Rome's accursed Campagna, nor wide
sun seemed a flying shuttle weaving the unwearied verdure.  Oh, busy weaver!
sun!  Level by nature to this earth's horizon are the glances of man's eyes;
sun-rise this man went from his hammock to his mast-head at the fore; and
suns, and soft-cymballing, round harvest-moons, we must needs give in to
superior's introduction of him to Ahab, he
superior, who'll ne'er confess.  What's that?  There now's a patched
superstitious feeling about seals, arising not only from their peculiar tones
superstitious old carpenters, now, would be tied up in the rigging, ere they
supplied with all the studs and joists of jaw-ivory (Sperm Whale) which had
supplies his own fuel and burns by his own body.  Would that he consumed his
supply the thoughts.  That's my small experience, so far as the Massachusetts
supposing we are loaded with powder barrels aft and lucifers forward; how
surgeon: Bunger, my lad, -- the captain).  Now, Bunger boy, spin your part
surrounding infinite of things, that it seemed one with the general
survive there in great numbers, much more may the great whale outlast all
suspended breath.  And harpoons sticking in near his starboard fin.  Aye,
swallow jack-knives, once upon a time let one drop into him in good earnest,
swallowed.  If you stooped over too far forward, you risked their pitching
swam over the site of the Tuileries, and Windsor Castle, and the Kremlin.  In
swashing sea heaved up under his own little craft, so that its gunwale
swearing to transfix with it the first sailor that but cast loose a rope's
sweatings to be smoked and burned anew by the combined fires of the equatorial
symbol of possession; so long as the party waifing it plainly evince their
system.  Yes, Captain Boomer, if you are quick enough about it, and have a
tackles had been attached to it --for they were slack -- because some play to
tail?  A reason for that, ye lawyers!  In his treatise on Queen-Gold, or
take ye good heed of that; Queequeg dies game!  I say; game, game, game!
taken this old blacksmith to thyself ere his full ruin came upon him, then
takes me for the hunch-backed skipper of some coasting smack.  Send down my
taking his wonted daily obervation of the sun to determine his latitude.  Now,
taking one good dart forwards, went down like a flash; and the barb of that
tall, heron-built captains; the water chucks you under the chin pretty quick,
tall, nigh a foot in diameter at the base, and jet-black as Yojo, the ebony
tambourine over base Pip, and hail him General, if he were once more dying
tapering down that way, serve to carry off the water, d'ye see.  Same with
tattooing --looks like the signs of the Zodiac himself.  What says the
taught thee, a green simple boy, how to splice a rope!
telescope; There I saw him, on the Line, last season.  And he took that
tell him that now I have eyed him carefully, I'm quite certain that he's no
temperate climes.  And there seems no reason to doubt that if these elephants,
tendons --a wad of muscle --but still contains some oil.  After being severed
territories become by assignment his.  By some writers this office is called a
than are here.  come, then, to my cabin.  Lo!  ye believers in gods all
than forty feet in its fullest circumference, such a whale will weigh at
than kept alive by any other man.  My captain, you must have ere this
than the last; the wife sat frozen at the window, with tearless eyes,
than useless old man standing, till the hideous rot of life should make him
that --in fact, tell him I've diddled him, and (aside to himself) perhaps
that I shall yet slay Moby Dick and survive it.  Take another pledge, old
that Stubb vowed he recognized his cutting spade-pole entangled in the lines
that a Prophet who prophesy'd of Mahomet, came from this Temple, and some do
that accursed fish. --The very tube he pointed at me! --the very one; this one
that accursed sound?  I go below; let me not see that thing here when I return
that arising from excavating an old city grave-yard, for the foundations of
that black midnight sending those gigantic moles into the daylight above.  So
that blackness of darkness, seemed the material counterpart of her
that bubblingly leaps with light and heat.  Long maintaining an enchanted
that bundle of bones; though, now that I think of it, it may contain
that but a Fast-Fish?  What is the ruinous discount which Mordecai, the broker,
that drugged whale there, wouldn't be fit to burn in a jail; no, not in a
that ferule and buckle-screw; I'll be ready for them presently.  Lucky now
that fine gam I had --long, very long after old Ahab touched her planks with
that ghost-devil, Fedallah; tail coiled out of sight as usual, oakum in the
that he held, the men fell back in dismay, and Ahab again spoke: -- All
that head, but otherwise was quite frank and confidential with him, so that
that in the museum of Manchester, in New Hampshire, they have what the
that in those regions elephants are numerous as droves of cattle in the
that inexpressible sperm, I washed my hands and my heart of it; I almost
that is content with our leavings, the drugged whale there, I mean; aye, and
that is lord over the Pequod. --On deck!  For an instant in the flashing eyes
that is so killing wonderful?  By Golconda!  let me read it once.  Halloa!
that it is largely used in perfumery, in pastiles, precious candles,
that it is plainly traceable to the first arrival of the Greenland whaling
that it was the production of one Fitz Swackhammer.  But my friend Dr.
that of Holland.  It was decreed by the States-General in A. D.
that on either side of the Temple, there are Rocks that shoot two Miles into
that one interval, sought speechless refuge, as it were, among the marble
that precise instant.  Then falling into a moment's revery, he again looked
that sort.  Now, there is this noteworthy difference between savage and
that still remains indifferent.  Oh, thou clear spirit, of thy fire thou
that the Nantucketers were the first among mankind to harpoon with civilized
that the casks last struck into the hold were perfectly sound, and that the
that the stricken whale must have indefinitely run away with his pursuers, as
that this old carpenter had been a life-long wanderer, whose much rolling, to
that upon breaking into the hold, and unloading one of these whale
that we call lives and souls, lie dreaming, dreaming, still; tossing like
that were knotted round the tail of one of these whales.  There's a pretty
that when fully invested and extended in life, he must have been ninety feet
that when we afterwards pulled on the line, bounce we came plump on to his
that while in Nantucket he had chanced to see certain little canoes of dark
that with regard to the controverted whale, harpoons, and line, they belonged
that you spoke to carpenter.  Carpenter?  why that's --but no; --a very tidy,
that you, a mere oarsman in the fishery, pretend to know aught about the
that!  Ding, dong, ding!  Who's seen Pip the coward?  There can be no hearts
that's the reason I never would work for lonely widow old women ashore, when
that, but there? --Hark!  he speaks again: but more wildly now.  Form two
that, if need were, could be statistically stated.  Nor, considered aright,
that; I want it of the true death-temper.  Ahoy, there!  Tashtego, Queequeg,
the Base of the Temple.  In this Afric Temple of the Whale I leave you,
the Captain's sons among the number of the missing boat's crew; but among the
the Captain, without his at all dreaming of distrusting their sincerity.
the Crab, and drags us back; and here, going from Virtue, Leo, a roaring
the Enderbies, therefore, whose house, I think, exists to the present day;
the English Captain, to whom the question was put.  What's the matter?  He
the Equatorial fishing-ground, and in the deep darkness that goes before the
the Frenchman's boats, then, were engaged in towing the ship one way, Stubb
the King of Hell.  But let us to the story.  It came to pass, that in the
the Parsee; and with fixed upward eye, and high-flung right arm, he stood
the Pequod's sailing from Nantucket, that he had been found one night lying
the Sea, and wound the Whales when they light upon 'em.  They keep a Whale's
the Sperm Whale to for fragrance, considering his magnitude?  Must it not be
the United States.  Moreover, at a place in Yorkshire, England, Burton
the United States?  All Loose-Fish.  What are the Rights of Man and the
the White Whale?  For the white fiend!  But now for the barbs; thou must
the White Whale? --how long ago?  The White Whale, said the Englishman,
the affairs of the deck, --Starbuck had no sooner trimmed the yards to the
the after bulwarks.  Rains and spray had damped it; the sun and wind had
the almanack and as I have heard devils can be raised with Daboll's
the anguish of that then present suffering was but the direct issue of a
the arched and overhanging rigging, where they had just been engaged securing
the bandages; and sending me to bed, half seas over, about three o'clock in
the barbs sharp as the needle-sleet of the Icy Sea.  For a moment, the old
the battering-ram, Capricornus, or the Goat; full tilt, he comes rushing, and
the beginning at the end.  It's the old woman's tricks to be giving cobbling
the blubber of the dutch whale fleet to be tried out, without being taken
the boiling rage he seemed to be in.  And thinking the hap-hazard line would
the bulwarks, and then instantaneously drop it half way down to the kelson.
the carpenter apprised of the order, than taking his rule, he forthwith with
the coat --it must have been the-- My boy, my own boy is among them.  For
the completed ship.  it is as if from the open field a brick-kiln were
the conclusion; not a cobbler's job, that's at an end in the middle, and at
the contrasting barbaric brilliancy of their teeth, all these were strangely
the country; now that I have perceived all this, I am ready to squeeze case
the crown, I believe, all the royal emoluments incident to the Cinque Port
the day, had betaken himself to the Captain's round-house ( cabinet he
the days of Banks and Solander, Cooke's naturalists, we find a Danish member
the deck here.  Thou know'st what to say.
the deck in rolling reveries.  But chancing to slip with his ivory heel, he
the devil could the lucifers get afire in this drenching spray here?  Why, my
the distance he saw the diminished dotted boat; and then a swift gleam of
the doubloon of the Pequod was a most wealthy example of these things.  On its
the effect, of the dyspepsia in the whale.  How to cure such a dyspepsia it
the elements.  The loaded muskets in the rack were shiningly revealed, as
the end to moulder away with the living parchment whereon they were inscribed,
the entire ship seems great leviathan himself; while on all hands the din is
the entire ship's company, the whole of this conscientious duty is at last
the fact that the oil obtained from such subjects is of a very inferior
the first hint of the hitching tiller; believe not the artificial fire, when
the flames!  Oh, thou magnanimous!  now do I glory in my genealogy.  But thou
the forecastle, till Ahab, troubledly pacing the deck, shouted out -- To the
the ghostly light, the gigantic jet negro, Daggoo, loomed up to thrice his
the grand symbol and badge.  It frequently happens that when several ships are
the great South Sea of the other world.  The ship named after him was worthy
the ground, previous to pointing her prow for home.  The three men at her
the heart of such decay; is this nothing?  Bethink thee of that saying of St.
the heavens yet hate thee, that thou can'st not go mad? --What wert thou
the helm, huskily demanding how the ship was heading.  East-sou-east,
the hold again, after concluding his contributory work for Ahab's leg, but
the hold, where once again leviathan returns to his native profundities,
the hunt.  He hated Pip for a poltroon.  Snatching the boat-knife from its
the joints of his innermost bones, set him before you in his ultimatum; that
the largest is the Alabama one mentioned in the last chapter, and that was
the last men in a flooded world.  I have dreamed it again, said he.  Of the
the last one.  Work that over again, Perth.  This done, Perth was about to
the last pint is casked, and all is cool, then the great hatchways are
the law?  But if the doctrine of Fast-Fish be pretty generally applicable, the
the lid, sir?  moving his hand as with a hammer.  aye.  And shall I caulk
the likeness of a
the mariners.  And to the importunity of their persisted questionings he had
the middle ages affected to detect a Jew in the company, by the nose.  Nor
the mincer.  It enjoins him to be careful, and cut his work into as thin
the mischief with this masterly code is the
the mizen
the moaning in squadrons over Asphaltites of unforgiven ghosts of Gomorrah,
the morning.  Oh, ye stars!  he sat up with me indeed, and was very severe
the muscle part.  He makes a fierce red flame there!  Aye, sir; he must have
the needles in the compasses, at intervals, go round and round.  It was thus
the needles were exactly inverted, shouted out his orders for the ship's
the old Manx sailor standing behind them; I heard; all of ye heard their
the old women talk Surgeon's Astronomy in the back country.  And by Jove, he's
the only desirable sequel for a career like this; but Death is only a
the open sea --mark how closely they hug their ship and only coast along her
the oriental archipelagoes spread before him; and another separate one
the other consciously inhaled the salt breath of the new found sea; that sea
the other day.  I thought they would keel up before long.  Presently, the
the other side now.  I don't like this cobbling sort of business --I don't like
the other, why in that case the arm is yours; only let the whale have
the plaintiffs.  And when those defendants were remonstrated with, their
the pole's length, and firmly secured so, with intertwistings of twine.
the present day superior in magnitude to those whose fossil remains are found
the projecting handle-ends of the spindle, round which the spool
the rags which the first fury of the tempest had left for its after sport.
the remarkable fact, that in geometry all bodies gliding along the cycloid,
the ribs --and with a ball of Arsacidean twine, wandered, eddied long amid
the rods!  cried Starbuck to the crew, suddenly admonished to vigilance by
the romantic name of this aromatic ship.  Though Stubb did not understand the
the sail-maker's needles.  Quick!  Accessory, perhaps, to the impulse
the sailors had actually caulked and pitched their chests, and filled them;
the sails, so that we hung there, reefed fast in the howling gale, a warning
the same number of months, mounted on horse instead of sailing in ships,
the same with pitch; batten them down tight, and hang it with the snap-spring
the sea and the night, and scornfully champed the white bone in her mouth,
the sea, under certain circumstances, seals have more than once been mistaken
the sea-chariot of the sun.  Ho, ho!  all ye nations before my prow, I bring
the seams, sir?  moving his hand as with a caulking-iron.  Aye.  And shall
the seas of life; but in the course of years, repenting of that step, he
the seizure.  Wherefore the plaintiffs now sued for the recovery of the value
the ship half-wheeled
the ship there was a pitch of the boiling oil, which seemed all eagerness to
the ship's pumps.  Hereby the casks are sought to be kept damply tight; while
the sights and the sounds that came bearing down before the wind, some few
the sinews and souls of Russian serfs and Republican slaves
the skies will be bright; those who glared like devils in the forking flames,
the sloop-of-war Rattler on a whaling voyage of discovery into the South Sea.
the slumbering crew arose from the boat's bottom, and ere noon the dead whale
the stranger captain himself, having stopped his vessel's way, was seen
the studious digesting of all this beer, beef, and bread, during which many
the sun is in the thigh, or in the calf, or in the bowels, I suppose, as
the sun then be?  The horse-shoe sign; for there it is, right opposite the
the sun to ye!  Yoke on the further billows; hallo!  a tandem, I drive the
the surface by
the tail.  A division which, in the whale, is much like halving an apple;
the things that cast man's eyes aloft to that heaven, whose live vividness
the tiller was indispensable.  In a severe gale like this, while the ship is
the tiller, but with the crazy conceit that the tiller was, somehow,
the two officers of the strange ship, leaning over the side, by the
the two quickly concocted a little plan for both circumventing and satirizing
the vault.  Sir?  The hatchway?  oh!  So it does, sir, so it does.  Art
the vessel while the boats are pursuing the whale.  As a general thing, these
the vice-bench and the open hatchway; the Carpenter calking its seams; the
the vicinity took it for the bones of one of the fallen angels.  The Alabama
the vigilant helmsman would ostentatiously handle his spokes, and the eager
the vivid lightning that had just been darting flambeaux, to light Ahab to his
the voyages were not so prolonged, and were also much more remunerative.
the waters, and the last whale, like the last man, smoke his last pipe, and
the western emigrants' horses only show their erected ears, while their
the whale was lost and Pip was saved.  So soon as he recovered himself, the
the whale, and tapped the light cedar planks with their tails.  A sound like
the whale-hunt peremptorily forbids so inglorious an end to the Leviathan.
the white heat for this kind of fine work.  Um-m.  So he must.  I do deem it
the white whale's talisman.  Sometimes they talked it over in the weary watch
the wild thrilling sounds that were heard, were the voices of newly drowned
the wind howled on, and the sea leaped, and the ship groaned and dived, and
the wind seemed coming round astern; aye!  the foul breeze became fair!
the windward quarter boat (Ahab's) did not escape.  A great rolling sea,
the witty Erskine went on to illustrate his position, by alluding to a recent
the wonder-freighted, tribute-rendering waves had cast upon his shores.  Chief
the yards, while we may, old man, and make a fair wind of it homewards, to
thee!  Hearkening to these voices, East and West, by early sun-rise, and by
thee, thou sun!  Then gazing at his quadrant, and handling, one after the
thee.  There's another rendering now; but still one text.  All sorts of men
thee: no!  not one jot more!  Thou canst not tell where one drop of water or
their clean frocks, are startled by the cry of There she blows!  and away
their coffins as a modern Kentuckian in his socks; and while the cattle and
their congenial hearts from inflexible Ahab's.  For a space the old man walked
their eyes sentimentally; as much as to say, --Oh!  my dear fellow beings, why
their fat fish high and dry, promising themselves a good 150 pounds from the
their final rest in the sea.  This done, the hatches are replaced, and
their heads all round;  meanwhile ruefully glancing from the whale to the
their hold full of boxes of tallow candles, and cases of snuffers,
their lives, obliged to forsake not only their lines, but their boat itself.
their noses upwardly projected from their faces like so many jib-booms.  Now
their oars.  In vain the English Captain hailed him.  With back to the
their proprietors upon similar grounds.  King Tranquo seizing his because he
their subject, though it may seem but an ordinary one.  How, then, with me,
their triangular oaken vaults, each mariner a chiselled muteness; a score of
their valleys, the frosty Swiss have retreated to their mountains; so,
them by the feet.  The smoke rolled away in sullen heaps.  To every pitch of
them that a one-legged man must be too much of a cripple to use their sea
them there, as mugs of ale at a vat.  He burns, too, the purest of oil, in
them, after long scratching about for his ideas, made bold to speak.  Please,
them, by pulling out the lighter whale of the two from the ship's side.  While
them, he cried to Ahab to place the water-cask near.  No, no --no water for
them, hence that species also is declining.  For they are only being driven
them, it (the fish) acquired a property in those articles; and hence anybody
them, with his own hand, round a long, heavy iron bolt.  A flaw!  rejecting
them; a regular circus horse he was, too, that went milling and milling
themselves from top to toe; and finally issue to the immaculate deck, fresh
themselves sometimes consist in hard words and harder knocks --the
themselves with an essence found in the inglorious bowels of a sick whale!
then himself evaporate in the final puff.  Comparing the humped herds of
then ranged round the sides within: a flask of fresh water was placed at the
then tempered.  Ego non baptizo te in nomine patris, sed in nomine diaboli!
then, and do not now, try out their oil at sea as the Southern ships have
then, dost thou not fear eavesdroppers?  Hold, don't speak!  And if I still
then, instantly, the reel began to whirl.  In turn, jerkingly raised and
then.  No fairy fingers can have pressed the gold, but devil's claws must
then?  But hereupon a fierce contest rose among them, concerning feet and
then?  i've part changed my flesh since that time, why not my mind?  Besides,
there at my ease, cross-legged on the deck; after the bitter exertion at the
there by Patagonia), and all hands --visitors and all --were called to reef
there is no intermediate remainder.  Now as this law, under a modified form,
there is now no telling; but, be that as it may, he had not been long at
there no other way?  no lawful way? --Make him a prisoner to be taken home?
there seems a reason in all things, even in law.
there still seems an inequality in the deeper analysis of the thing.  For,
there swimming in that planisphere, centuries before Solomon was cradled.
there will tell you the rest (by the way, captain --Dr.  Bunger, ship's
there, at the three mast heads, stand three
there.  In the Isle of Man, hey?  Well, the other way, it's good.  Here's a
there.  Poor devil!  I say, pass round a hat, some one, and let's make him a
therefore came off not altogether discreditably; though Stubb observing him,
therefore, I say, we have precisely two barrels of beer per man, for a
therefore, must have some special origin,
these anchors now as if they were never going to be used again.  tying these
these dissertations, I have invariably used a huge quarto edition of Johnson,
these fragments to have belonged to some utterly unknown Leviathanic species.
these resplendent Japanese seas the mariner encounters the direst of all
these signs.  I've studied signs, and know their marks; they were taught me
these unceasingly were active.  Through the lacings of the leaves, the great
they are full of fight, fun, and wickedness, tumbling round the world at such
they do hills about Boston, to fill up some morass in the Milky Way.  Now
they fly to fight another whale, and go through the whole weary thing again.
they had heard the night before.  But again the old Manxman said nay.  The
they have done extremely well, and thank God, if at last they carry home the
they peered in, for nothing but their own
they stood upright against the forward bulkhead.  Starbuck was an honest,
they will, still.  But do they only have mercy on long faces? --have they no
thigh into the curve of the hook (it was like sitting in the fluke of an
thine?  And who are hearsed that die on the sea?  But I said, old man, that
thing for immortal souls to sieve through!  Who art thou, boy?  Bell-boy,
thing from others; and hence it was, that not till a considerable interval
thing occurred to me.  Starting from a brief standing sleep, I was horribly
thing you distantly allude to.  Away, and bring us napkins!  But mark: aloft
thing, he enjoys such high health; taking abundance of exercise; always out
things the more ingenious of his people could invent; chiefly carved woods of
think ye, that the Samuel Enderby, and some other English whalers I know of
think. --I come to report a fair wind to him.  But how fair?  Fair for death
thinkers but Loose-Fish?  What is the great globe itself but a Loose-Fish?
thinkest thou now, man; I heard thy cry; it was not the same in the song.
this apartment is a scene of terror to all tyros, especially by night.  On one
this barb?  holding it high up.  A cluster of dark nods replied, Yes.  Three
this chapter it was, headed Smeer, or Fat, that I found a long detailed
this din of the great world's loom, thy subtlest thinkings may be overheard
this dirty scrape.  Anything to oblige ye, my sweet and pleasant fellow,
this doubloon here, and they are all on fire to unscrew it.  But, unscrew
this doubloon was of purest, virgin gold, raked somewhere out of the heart of
this emprise under the weightiest words of the dictionary.  And here be it
this empties the decanter.
this event, at least as a portent; for they regarded it, not as a
this hand complies with my humor more genially than that boy. -- Middle aisle
this is his first voyage; he was a Cologne manufacturer before.  But come
this latter duty, others were employed in dragging away the larger tubs, so
this life's howling gale?  Starbuck!  I'll not have the Burtons hoisted.
this luckless child, and have abandoned him, ye creative libertines.  Here,
this our god!  That's for us.  Aye, priests --well, how long do ye make him,
this sea, whose gently awful stirrings seem to speak of some hidden soul
this seam?  Oh!  that is the one, sir!  Said I not all seams and dents but
this soliloquizer on guard there, and talking all the time to keep himself
this time he did not breast out the line; and hence, when the whale started
this time it was that my poor pagan companion, and fast bosom-friend,
this turbulence though, and when about three fourths grown, break up, and
this vast ivory-ribbed chest, with the long, unrelieved spine, extending far
this way and that --was burning fitfully, and casting fitful shadows upon the
this way.  A touch, and Starbuck may survive to hug his wife and child
this wondrous whale, and saw the skull an altar, and the artificial smoke
this.  What was that now about one leg standing in three places, and all
this: that the gods themselves are not for ever glad.  The ineffaceable, sad
those of Nantucket, all the more congenial to him, being a whaleman, that
those of its earlier ones.  Of all the pre-adamite whales yet exhumed, by far
those orphans whose unwedded mothers die in bearing them: the secret of our
those screws, and let's finish it before the resurrection fellow comes
those wondrous grey-headed, grizzled whales, sometimes met, and these will
thou a silk-worm?  Dost thou spin thy own shroud out of thyself?  Look at thy
thou callest thyself a right good workmanlike workman, eh!  Well, then, will
thou canst but kill; and all are killed.  No fearless fool now fronts thee.
thou canst not die till it be seen, old man.  And what was that saying about
thou could'st, blacksmith, glad enough would I lay my head upon thy anvil,
thou crazy loon, cried the Manxman, seizing him by the arm.  Away from the
thou done with her?  There lies my puzzle; but thine is greater.  Thou knowest
thou it.  I hold the spool, sir.  But just as my captain says.  With these
thou makest, I shall nevertheless feel another leg in the same identical
thou not also the undertaker?  Aye, sir; I patched up this thing here as a
thou sneezing about?  Bone is rather dusty, sir.  Take the hint, then; and
thou tell where some other thing besides me is this moment living?  Where is
thou thyself happenest to be on this wide planet, and the hand that holds
though doubtless the original Samuel must long ago have slipped his cable for
though for some time past a number of these whales, not less than 13,000 have
though many there be who have tried it.  Ere entering upon the subject of
though no other nation has ever had any written whaling law, yet the American
though the savage salt spray bursting down the forecastle scuttle, rather too
though thou launchest navies of full-freighted worlds, there's that in here
though thou only see'st it here in my flesh, it has worked down into the bone
thought Ahab, while even the highest earthly felicities ever have a certain
thought of his case was forcibly shown by a curious favor he asked.  He called
thought of that at the time.  Indeed, in some sort, they were not grieved at
thoughts than those, whose mysterious shades you saw creeping over the face
thoughts were incidentally suggested to me, capable of a transcendental
thoughts, Starbuck said nothing, but quietly he issued all requisite orders;
thousand leagues of blue.  There is, one knows not what sweet mystery about
thousand one hundred inhabitants.  Think you not then that brains, like yoked
thousands of years before even Pliny was born, do not measure so much in
three places standing in one hell --how was that?  Oh!  I don't wonder he
thrice their previous height; Ahab, with the rest, closes his eyes, his
through the bung holes of large casks, and carry it home in that manner; the
through the fire; --but now it remains to conclude the last chapter of this
through the water with some precision again; and the course --for the present,
throws him into the hydrophobia; but go on --go on with the arm story.  Yes,
thrust from behind the door, which was held ajar from within.  This was the
thrusting his shavings into the furnace throughout the passage.  Here be it
thunder?  Um, um, um.  We don't want thunder; we want rum; give us a glass
thus far been accumulated
thus far had been impatiently listening to this bye-play between the two
thus marred or lost; and if the binnacle compasses be affected, the same
thus the first man of the pequod that mounted the mast to look out for the
thwart of his boat that his ivory leg had
thy creativeness mechanical.  Through thee, thy flaming self, my scorched
thyself?  Though it come to the last, I shall still go before thee thy
till there seemed but little left of him but his frame and tattooing.  But as
timber.  The ribs were ten on a side.  The first, to begin from the neck, was
timbers.  On the flanks it is cased with wood, and at top completely covered
time I lived as in a musky meadow; I forgot all about our horrible oath; in
time, to increase her distance from it.  But the rest of her crew being at
time.  Removing the fire-board from the front of the try-works, the bare
time.  What a hooroosh aloft there!  I would e'en take it for sublime, did I
tinkerings; we are their betters.  I like to take in hand none but clean,
tipped with a pallid fire; and touched at each tri-pointed lightning-rod-end
to Flask, that some one in that missing boat wore off that Captain's best
to Hell's flames, I was thinking; when, when, all of a sudden, thank the
to Stubb to desist, and come on board, else the ship would bid them good
to a clumsy landsman again; hopelessly eyeing the uncertain changeful height
to be newly attracted by the strange figures and inscriptions stamped on it,
to be the chief-mate.  Well, then, my Bouton-de-Rose-bud, have you seen the
to beware of Starbuck; thou wouldst but laugh; but let Ahab beware of Ahab;
to describe.  It is called slobgollion; an appellation original with the
to do some little job for them; altering, or repairing, or new shaping their
to dry up and die with a sort of prodigious dyspepsia, or indigestion;
to each of their fleet of 180 sail, we have 5,400 Low Dutch seamen in all;
to every stroke of the clenched hands of the crew.  On the quarter-deck, the
to exhort him to cherish his courageousness to the utmost, for he might often
to her, the boastful sails all fell together as blank bladders that are
to it.  But ploughed up to the primary rock of the matter, the two great
to leeward, homeward --I see it lightens up there; but not with the
to lose whales by the likes of you; a whale would sell for thirty times what
to pick up her three far to windward boats --ere going in quest of the fourth
to run, Pip was left behind on the sea, like a hurried traveller's trunk.
to shake in the wind; I thought my eyes were open; I was half conscious of
to show that the old Dutch whalers of two or three centuries ago were high
to stop my singing
to take the boat's steering oar, and Ahab, swinging the cutting-tackle
to ten times the natural lustre with which in his native Tolland County in
to that ever-contracting, dropping circle ashore, who, for any reason,
to that famous elephant, with jewelled tusks, and redolent with myrrh, which
to the helmsman.  For during the violence of the gale, he had only steered
to the mincer.  They look much like blocks of Berkshire marble.  Plum-pudding
to the starry archipelagoes; for not only do they believe that the stars are
to their stowage.  To be short, among whalemen, the harpooneers are the
to traditions no rocks furnish tablets; where for long Chinese ages, the
to which they are exposed, forbidding any other course.  The consequence is,
toes of his pumps as usual.  What does he say, with that look of his?  Ah,
together, and hung pendulous, like a knot of numbed wasps from a drooping,
told?  But I've forgotten.  Any way, I'll have me thirty separate,
tomb-stones, and break the green damp mould with unfathomably wondrous
tongue, Starbuck grasped Ahab by the arm -- God, God is against thee, old
too calmly, sanely woful to me.  In no Paradise myself, I am impatient of
too hast thy incommunicable riddle, thy unparticipated grief.  Here again with
too was standing on his quarter-deck, shaggy and black, with a stubborn
too wide a margin to jump in for the future; Stubb suddenly dropped all
too, but not to all; --look here, they burn; but thou--thou liv'st among them
too, of water, and bread, and beef, and shooks of staves, and iron bundles of
took care, afterwards,
topsails, we were so top-heavy that we had to swing each other aloft in
tormented flaming life; and I have seen it wane at last, down, down, to
tormented sleep, as if Starbuck's voice had caused the long dumb dream to
tormented surgeon, who, after in vain remonstrating against the proceedings of
touchest my inmost centre, boy; thou art tied to me by cords woven of my
touching Fast-Fish and Loose-Fish, I say, will, on reflection, be found the
towards him, commanded the ship's sailors to stand by to lower.  In a moment
tower on another; on the third a crowing cock; while arching over all was a
tower, cutting my boat in two, leaving each half in splinters; and, flukes
tows it alongside, without risk of life or line.  Thus the most vexatious and
tracery of sculpture, the Temple of the Law, like the Temple of the
trample on thee, thou paltry thing that feebly pointest on high; thus I split
transferringly measured on it the exact length the coffin was to be, and then
translation, giving him a box of sperm candles for his trouble -- this same
transported to her planks.  The try-works are planted between the foremast and
transported up the Pupella glen, where a grand temple of lordly palms now
treated of in a separate chapter, on the same courteous principle that
treated, whales as a species are by no
treating of the Sperm Whale, I have chiefly dwelt upon the marvels of his
trowsers; and had thus far been dividing his attention between a marlingspike
truly, like the smell of spring violets; I declare to you, that for the
trumps --every soul on board.  A short life to them, and a jolly death.  And
try-works to the Pequod's forecastle, where the off duty watch were sleeping,
try-works were first started on this present voyage.  It belonged to Stubb to
try-works, you would all but swear you trod some silent merchant vessel,
tumultuous way, and Ahab's also, as he went lurching along the deck.  I
tune this heart beats;
twelve weeks' allowance, exclusive of his fair proportion of that 550 ankers
twenty-eight feet.  And this work was published so late as A. D.
twist and wrench, that though it still remained entire, and to all
two allies, heavily backs the grandissimus, as the mariners call it, and
two anchors here, Flask, seems like tying a man's hands behind him.  And what
two score years ago, by the old witch in Copenhagen.  Now, in what sign will
unaccompanied with hinted dark meanings.  He hollowly laughed, and thus
unaccountable drowsiness which ever would come over me at a midnight helm.
unaccountable, cunning life-principle in him; this it was, that kept him a
unappalled.  Yet the grey Manxman --the oldest mariner of all -- declared that
uncommon personal bulk more fitted him to compile a lexicon to be used by a
uncontinented seas, interflow with the blue heavens; and so form the white
unctuous natures, being rendered still more unctuous by the nature of their
unctuous properties.  These fritters feed the flames.  Like a plethoric
undaunted, and victorious fowl, that, too, is Ahab; all are Ahab; and this
understand somewhat now.  Yes, I have heard something curious on that score,
undetected villain's marble mansion with a door-plate for a waif; what is
unexpected question; and would then have fain boarded the stranger, when
unimpressed; or if impressed, it was only with a certain magnetism shot into
unmanageably winces under the unconcluded operation; whirling round the
unnamable imminglings, float beneath me here; I am buoyed by breaths of once
unnatural hallucination of the night, and the fatal contingency of being
unresting eye; all thy strange mummeries not unmeaningly blended with the
unsavory odor such a mass must exhale; worse than an Assyrian city in the
unsealed, the bowels of the ship are thrown open, and down go the casks to
unseen nooks; and when by the combined and simultaneous industry of almost
unseen weaver! --pause! --one word! -- whither flows the fabric?  what palace may
unsignifying pettiness lurking in them, but, at bottom, all heart-woes, a
unspeakable terrors of the whale, which, having been before all time, must
unstaggering breeze abounded so, that sky and air seemed vast outbellying
unsupplied with the kindly invention, Ahab now found himself abjectly reduced
untidy business.  But there is another thing to rebut.  They hint that all
untravelled man to try to comprehend aright this wondrous whale, by merely
unverdured seas; thou art an infidel, thou queen, and too truly speakest to
up steps a very learned and most Christian and charitable gentleman, with a
up the Andes, in the unwaning clime that knows no autumn.  Zoned by those
up to my table-lands yet.  Quick, and see to it. --By masts and keels!  he
up towards the sun and murmured to himself: Thou sea-mark!  thou high and
up, not by the sun, but by some unnatural gases.  Then come out those fiery
upon a beach.  Ahab and all his boat's crew seemed asleep but the Parsee; who
upon her heel, her three firm-seated graceful masts erectly poised upon her
upon him there; where, stripped to his woollen drawers, the tattooed savage
upon the Equator, in our southern fishery, beer would be apt to make the
upon the Niger's unknown source; here, too, life dies sunwards full of
upon the anvil --the red mass sending off the sparks in thick hovering
upon the reel, not many hours after the magnet scene, and he remembered how
upon them, for now, ex officio, every sailor is a cooper.  At length, when
upon these almost final waters, and gliding towards the Japanese
upper panels.  The isolated subterraneousness of the cabin made a certain
uppermost in him during the interview.  By this time their destined victim
upright man; but out of Starbuck's heart, at that instant when he saw the
upwards, he cried: See!  see!  and once more the high tapering flames were
urchins, the priest's children, who had stolen them to play marbles with.
us that at one hunting the King of Siam took
usage as it had?  I think so, sir.  And I suppose thou can'st smoothe
using the musket for a staff, with an iron brow he paced to and fro in the
vainly warning the infatuated old world from the flood.  Tierce after tierce,
vales; the mild blue hill-sides; as over these there steals the hush, the
valuable sperm, but additional supplemental casks had been bartered for,
valuable sperm; and then, with weary patience, cleansed ourselves from its
valuable statistics.  But as I was crowded for space, and wished the other
value our lives, to cut loose from these fish.  Instantly the captain ran
vapors in advance slid aside; and there in the distance lay a ship, whose
vapory, mid-day sea, that the many noses on the Pequod's deck proved more
various parts so manifold, was his vice-bench; a long rude ponderous table
various sizes, but also screw-drivers, cork-screws, tweezers, awls, pens,
various weapons and boat furniture.  Often he would be surrounded by an eager
vast skeleton of an extinct monster, found in the year
very much astonished?  Toes are scarce among veteran blubber-room men.
very pleasant smell was smelt in the sea.  I will bet something now, said
very probably capsizing her.  How glad and how grateful the relief from this
very unctuous and savory withal.  You might easily dent it with your thumb;
vessels, he was, to a certain off-handed, practical extent, alike experienced
vibrated over all the devotees, like the hair-hung sword that so affrighted
vice-bench, the carpenter for convenience' sake and general reference, now
vice.  Slabs of ivory, leather straps, pads, screws, and various tools of all
viewed in some particular lights, the case might by a bare possibility in
views to safety, now swim the seas in immense caravans, so that to a large
vigilant discoverers than the three pairs of eyes aloft.  A peculiar and not
vigorous Enderbys, boldly rounded Cape Horn, and was the first among the
violent disputes would often arise between the fishermen, were there not some
violently jammed his hand, as he was passing a lashing.  Blast it! --but
virgin, fair-and-square mathematical jobs, something that regularly begins
vocabulary.  But as applied by whalemen, it becomes so.  A whaleman's nipper
vocation, and especially by their pursuing their game in those frigid Polar
volcanoes; sun's disks and stars; ecliptics, horns-of-plenty, and rich
volume, which, by the musty whaling smell of it, I knew must be about
voyage was a skilful and lucky one; and returning to her berth with her hold
voyage, had been cut from the aboriginal groves of the Lackaday islands, and
wake along the present lines of the Andes and the Himmalehs.  Who can show a
wanderings at that period, there was no other secure way of preserving such
want here?  roared the Guernsey-man, flying into a sudden passion.  Oh!
wanted it; and Sir Clifford, because he was lord of the seignories of those
war is pain, and hate is woe.  Come in thy lowest form of love, and I will
warning.  Now, it is no very easy matter for anybody --except those who are
warped it; all the elements had combined to rot a thing that hung so idly.
warrior, stretched him out in his canoe, and so left him to be floated away
was a stript abstract; an unfractioned integral; uncompromised as a new-born
was as ugly gaping wound as surgeon ever saw; more than two feet and several
was brought to the ship.
was carefully swung inside the high bulwarks, and gently landed upon the
was carelessly reclining in his own boat's bow.  He was a darkly-tanned,
was crawling about amid that dampness and slime, like a green spotted lizard
was furnished with colored glasses, through which to take sight of that solar
was heading east, I think. --Is your Captain crazy?  whispering Fedallah.
was led out of an Indian town to do honor to Alexander the Great?
was moreover unhesitatingly expert in all manner of conflicting aptitudes,
was no duplicate; hence, he now comes in person on this stage.  Like all
was now so far away, and he and all his crew so intent upon his fish, that
was our business to squeeze these lumps back into fluid.  A sweet and unctuous
was shown; and Starbuck went down into the cabin to report this unfavorable
was the first time in my life that I ever cruised on the Line, began the
was the mighty circular basket of ribs which once enclosed his vitals.  To me
was there ever such another Bunger in the watery world?  Bunger, when you
was, Never jump from a boat, Pip, except --but all the rest was indefinite,
watch and seals, you may as well begin by telling him that he looks a sort
watching his final wanings from the now tranquil boat.  For that strange
water.  A hatchet!  a hatchet!  cut it off -- we haul in no cowards here.
waters heaved the colossal orbs.  He saw God's foot upon the treadle of the
waters into the Pacific.  And so Starbuck found Ahab with a general chart of
waters of the world, the Indian ocean and Atlantic being but its arms.  The
waves should rise and fall, and ebb and flow unceasingly; for here, millions
way --come, oakum; quick.  Here we go again.  This wooden mallet is the cork,
way and that in the midnight sea, the enormous casks are slewed round and
way of doxology to the deed he had done, he would now retain their line,
we can consider it is, with a crane, to pile its bones high up on end.  No
we lowered for a pod of four or five whales, and my boat fastened to one of
we mortals by long toilings extracted from the world's vast bulk its small but
we suddenly jump, as Scorpio, or the Scorpion, stings us in rear; we are
weather there on the Line.  But it was no use --I did all I could; sat up with
weather, to swim in the open ocean is as easy to the practised swimmer as to
weeks after Ahab's harpoon had been welded.  It was a Nantucket ship, the
went a-whaling.
were full of gold coins.  I, too, want a harpoon made; one that a thousand
were hard to say, unless by administering three or four boat loads of
were nothing more than pieces of small squid bones embalmed in that manner.
were obtained; but more was unavoidably lost in the sea, and still more,
were pumping the ship next morning; and lo!  no inconsiderable oil came up
were ready for it yet in that direction.  Overhearing the indignant but
were seen standing round her huge try-pots, which, covered with the
were still smaller ones, but they had been lost by some little cannibal
whale author like me.  One often hears of writers that rise and swell with
whale be truly and livingly found out.  But the spine.  For that, the best way
whale must have been at least sixteen feet; whereas, the corresponding rib
whale ship must carry its cooper.  I was reinforced in this opinion by seeing
whale which they had originally descried afar off from the shore.  Now the
whale, in his own osseous post-diluvian reality, as set down by the venerable
whale, or a gale, or some violent, ungovernable, unintelligent destroyer of
whale, though of a departed species.
whale-boat adrift?  Throttling his joy, Ahab negatively answered this
whale-boat.  pip's missing.  let's see now if ye haven't fished him up here,
whale-bone whales no longer haunt many grounds in former years abounding with
whale.  Whereupon Stubb quickly pulled to the floating body,
whale; and as the fish received the darted iron, it gave its customary rap,
whaleman (more than he was), will make bold to tell him so.  Because I
whalemen allowances are always made for peculiar cases, where it would be an
whalemen, and even so is the nature of the substance.  It is an ineffably
whaler is outwardly distinguished by her try-works.  She presents the curious
whalers may be likewise imputed to the existence on the coast of Greenland,
whalers.  The title was, Dan Coopman, wherefore I concluded that this must
whales always smell bad.  Now how did this odious stigma originate?  I opine,
whales close to them on one side, turned, and gave chase; and Stubb's boat
whales to the ship.  What now?  said the Guernsey-man, when the captain had
whales to which these two skeletons belonged, were originally claimed by
whales with the humped herds of buffalo, which, not forty years ago,
whales, for it's so calm they won't drift.  By this time Stubb was over the
whaling scene recounted, and when we were slowly sailing over a sleepy,
whaling-pike is similar to a frigate's boarding-weapon of the same name.  The
what an old fellow gets now for working in dead lumber.  Saw a live tree, and
what are you holding yours for?  Oh, nothing!  It's a wax nose; I have to
what our sailors called Bamboo-Town, his capital.  Among many other fine
what's all this staring been about?  It is worth sixteen dollars, that's true;
what's that he says now -- hist!  I look, you look, he looks; we look, ye
whatever small outward clingings might have originally pertained to him?  He
whatever that might prove to be; therefore, they were going to leave the
wheels among 'em.  Aye, here on the coin he's just crossing the threshold
when captain ahab came along, carrying in his hand a small rusty-looking
when its lightning strikes a would-be murderer in his bed, tindering sheets
when resuming his walk he again paused before the mainmast, then, as the same
when this strange circumstance was made known aft, the carpenter was at once
when thou art dead, never bury thyself under living people's noses.  Sir?
where I am --but canst thou cast the least hint where I shall be?  Or canst
where the blacksmith is at work.) Drat the file, and drat the bone!  That is
whether it was that he was not yet half waked from his sleep (for sailors
which also hummingly soliloquizes; or rather, his body was a sentry-box and
which ever enjoy all holidays and festivities with finer, freer relish than
which happened, in this instance, to be right under poor Pip's seat.  The
which is conducted at a curious wooden horse, planted endwise against the
which is here pointed out, and will be still further elucidated.  During my
which is sucked in --by what?  Up with the reel!  The dead, blind wall butts
which latter name is the one used by the learned Fogo Von Slack, in his great
which leaned against it; in my ears was the low hum of sails, just beginning
while I write that this little black was brilliant, for even blackness has
while you're working at 'em?  But joking aside, though; do you know,
white bubbles in the blue of the sea.  The life-buoy --a long slender cask --was
white one, of equal developments, though of dissimilar color, driven in one
white, for I will not let this go.
white-horse, so called, which is obtained from the tapering part of the fish,
who afterwards took the fish had a right to them.  Now the defendants
who file old jaws and shinbones.  Let's try another.  Aye, now, this works
who had just got into the chains, and was using a cutting-spade, had slung his
who thus far had but icily received his petition.  For eight-and-forty hours
who were alive seventy-five years ago; and adding this countless host to the
whole bulk about; makes all coasts one bay to it; seems the tide-beating
whole deluge and drowns us; and to wind up with Pisces, or the Fishes, we
whole mile of shoreless ocean was between Pip and Stubb.  Out from the centre
wholly neglect to heave the log; though at the same time, and frequently more
whose antiquity seems to claim for them an almost fossiliferous character, we
whose object might have been to revive the spirits of his crew by a stroke of
why mayest not thou, carpenter, feel the fiery pains of hell for ever, and
wick into; aye, we all know these things; but look ye, here's a Crappo
wide-rolling watery prairies and Potters' Fields of all four continents, the
width, and looks something like a white billiard-ball.  I was told that there
wife's viciousness, had at last abandoned her upon
wife, and three blithe, ruddy children; every Sunday went to a
wild cries they raised, as the now useless brick and mortar were being hurled
wild, Hindoo odor about it, such as may lurk in the vicinity of funereal
will I guide my earthly way by thee; the level ship's compass, and the level
will any whaleman believe these stories?  No.  The whale of to-day is as big
will serve my turn.  What art thou thrusting that thief-catcher into my face
will shortly trouble us so little for evermore, the poor fellows ought to be
will still survive, and rearing upon the topmost crest of the equatorial
will ye?  Thank ye.  They laugh at long-togs so, Flask; but seems to me, a
wind has gone down and shifted, sir; the fore and main topsails are reefed
windlass for a few indolent days (but eating with a vigorous appetite) he
windlass, hold up a specimen rib for exhibition?  Explain thyself, Ishmael.
windlass; under a blue tranquil sky; the ship under indolent sail, and
winds, and this brain-truck of mine now sails amid the cloud-scud.  Shall I
wise, and therefore jolly; --not that man is fitted to sit down on
wiseish look to it.  But, avast; here comes our old Manxman --the old
with Arsacidean annals, in strange hieroglyphics; in the skull, the priests
with Yojo between, he called for the coffin lid (hatch he called it) to be
with a certain grizzled wittiness; such as might have served to pass the time
with a most scrupulously neat commander.  The unmanufactured sperm oil
with a quarter or a half?  It is his.  In a word, the whale was seized and
with a small lightning-rod running up the corner of his hat, like a militia
with a tail?  An allegorical meaning may lurk here.  There are two royal fish
with an attentive eye.  He then called for his harpoon, had the wooden stock
with bowed shoulders, staggers off with it as if he were a grenadier carrying
with elated step, they pace the planks in twos and threes, and humorously
with half an eye can be sensible.  I don't know that, Stubb.  You sometimes
with him, said the interpreter.  Thank him heartily; but tell him it's
with man.  Here Saturn's grey chaos rolls over me, and I obtain dim, shuddering
with savages, and laden with fire, and burning a corpse, and plunging into
with soapstone and sand, till they shine within like silver punch-bowls.
with taking this fish?  It is his.  We have been at great trouble, and
with that pleasant, genial, jolly brightness peculiar to his tribe; a tribe,
with that unearthly idiot face.  stand away again and hear him.  hark!  I
with the expiring breeze, we saw that the Frenchman had a second whale
with the fanciful French taste, the upper part of her stem-piece was carved in
with the oblique energy of the wind, was now almost dipping into the creamy,
with the pain; have I been but forging my own branding-iron, then?  Pray
with the water; the casks below must have sprung a bad leak.  Much concern
with thee; I burn with thee; would fain be welded with thee; defyingly I
with their trowsers rolled high up on their eely legs, had wearily hauled
with them from the Polynesian Isles; while suspended in an ornamented boat,
with three tapering white flames, each of the three tall masts was silently
with ye whalebone.  Now this was written at a time when the black limber bone
withdrawing it from the fold that had hidden it, he held up a white arm of
without a body?  Hah!  Good Lord!  Truly, sir, if it comes to that, I must
without a scorch.  Because I am scorched all over, Captain Ahab, answered
without delay set about making a new leg, and directed the mates to see him
woe on woe!  Oh, Death, why canst thou not sometimes be timely?  Hadst thou
wonders!  There's a clue somewhere; wait a bit; hist--hark!  By Jove, I have
wonders, eh?  Pity if there is nothing wonderful in signs, and significant in
wondrous and fearful in man, never yet was put into words or books.  And the
wondrous extermination was the spear of man; yet the far different nature of
wondrous period, ere time itself can be said to have begun; for time began
wondrously thin, ruptured membranes of the case, coalescing.  Gurry, so
wont to pace his quarter-deck, taking regular turns at either limit, the
wood, like the rich war-wood of his native isle; and upon inquiry, he had
wood.  At all times except when whales were alongside, this bench was securely
word, it was Queequeg's conceit, that if a man
words of mirth; as their uncivilized laughter forked upwards out of them,
words that are inaudible among the flying spindles; those same words are
work of a departed prophet and seer of his island, who, by those hieroglyphic
work on Smells, a textbook on that subject.  As its name imports (smeer, fat;
world it runs, and then comes the spring!  But as for me, all the start I
world's circumference, not an inhabitable hand's breadth of land was visible.
world; and the thousand harpoons and lances darted along all continental
worn-out coffee-mill.  Prick ears, and listen!  If the White Whale be
worship thee!  The boat!  the boat!  cried Starbuck, look at thy boat, old
would be liable to many mishaps, besides interfering not a little with some
would do the job.  But I'm made of knotty Aroostook hemlock; I don't budge.
would have no lightning-rods?  But shall this crazed old man be tamely
would have slain not forty, but forty thousand and more buffaloes; a fact
would seem to argue some uncommon vivacity of intelligence.  But not precisely
would think, then, that such fine ladies and gentlemen should regale
would weld his own iron.  As, then, with regular, gasping hems, he hammered
wrinkles.  It was he, it was he!  cried Ahab, suddenly letting out his
wrist: the carpenter concocts a soothing lotion.  Stubb longed for vermillion
writing of this Leviathan?  Unconsciously my chirography expands into placard
written or unwritten, universal, undisputed law applicable to all cases.
ye the doxology for a wind-up.  Madman!  look through my eyes if thou hast
year.  What we come twenty thousand miles to get is worth saving, sir.  So
years (the latter part of the last century, say) these Leviathans, in small
years previous (ever since
yesterday his ship spoke a vessel, whose captain and chief-mate, with six
yet abandon her he did, so that she became a loose-fish; and therefore when
yet man is a money-making animal, which propensity too often interferes with
yet two to the soul.  Where thou feelest tingling life; there, exactly there,
yet.  Mr. Starbuck--a lance without a pole; a top-maul, and the smallest of
yoke of fiends could not part, Perth; something that will stick in a whale
you King-Post, you, I suppose you would have every man in the world go about
you don't get this dust; amputate a live bone, and you don't get it
you how that came here; he knows.  No, I don't, said the captain, but
you know, gentlemen, that the digestive organs of the whale are so
you look, he looks; we look, ye look, they look.  Well, that's funny.
you rise the harder you toil.  So with poor Queequeg, who, as harpooneer,
you would, Pip, in Alabama.  Bear that in mind, and don't jump any more.
you, sir --hearts and souls alive, man --the next instant, in a jiff, I was
young bride's eye! --Tell me not of thy teeth-tiered sharks, and thy
your doubloons of Chili, your doubloons of Bolivia, your doubloons of
your navel, and what's the consequence?  Then again, if it stays here, that
your oaths to hunt the White Whale are as binding as mine; and heart, soul,
your true motto in whaling; but cases will sometimes happen when Leap
yourself; you're Aquarius, or the water-bearer, Flask; might fill pitchers
