








































     A nice spot, cried Flask; just let me prick him there once.  Avast!
     Adverse winds are holding mad Christmas in him, boys.  It's the first foul
     Crossing the
     Ere quitting, for the nonce, the
     I think that all this indirectly proceeds from the helpless perplexity of
     If the Sperm Whale be physiognomically a
     It was a terrific, most pitiable, and maddening sight.  The whale was now
     Nimble as a cat, Tashtego
     Now comes the Baling of
     The predestinated day
     There are some
     There she slides, now!  Hurrah for the white-ash breeze!  Down with the
     To scan the lines of his face, or feel
     Whale gives token of sinking, they fasten buoys to him, with plenty of
     What has he in his hand there?  cried Starbuck, pointing to something
     With a grating rush, the three lines flew round the loggerheads with such a
     and all caught their breath, as half swinging --now over the sailors' heads,
     and fifty fins growing on each side of his upper chop, which arch over his
     and not till you get near twenty feet from the forehead do you come to the
     and the ship seemed on the point of going over.  Hold on, hold on, won't
     and then you have two almost equal parts, which before were naturally
     been impertinent.  As on your physiognomical voyage you sail round his vast
     dexterously he lands on the summit of the head.  There --still high elevated
     do, do! --What's that Yarman about now?  At this moment Derick was in the act
     full of sparks, were given, when the exceeding strain effected the rest.
     hoisted Tun.  He has carried with him a light tackle called a whip,
     holding on, as it is called; this hooking up by the sharp barbs of his live
     into the great Kentucky Mammoth Cave of his stomach.  But let us hold on here
     its broad forward end forming the expanded vertical apparent forehead of the
     last elevated out of the water, and retained in that position by the
     making affrighted broken circles in the air, vainly striving to escape the
     poor Tash by the head.  He averred, that upon first thrusting in for him, a
     raised from the mast-heads of both vessels; and so eager for the chase was
     seem almost as hopeful as for Lavater to have scrutinized the wrinkles on the
     that he will keep thus bleeding and bleeding for a considerable period; even
     the Right Whale has two external spout-holes, the Sperm Whale only one.
     unless, indeed, your fancy has been fixed by the technical term crown also
     very heedfully, like a treasure-hunter in some old house, sounding the
     will ye!  Stand clear of the tackle!  cried a voice like the bursting of a
     yet, upon
-- It's against my religion to get mad; but I'd like to eat that villanous
-- What a hump --Oh, do pile on the beef --lays like a log!  Oh!  my lads, do
--almost fatal operation whereby the Sperm Whale's great Heidelburgh Tun is
--cried daggoo again with a joyful shout; and soon after, Queequeg was seen
--don't oh, don't! -- see that Yarman --Oh!  won't ye pull for your duff, my
--particularly remark its front aspect, in all its compacted collectedness.  I
--the delicious death of an Ohio honey-hunter, who seeking honey in the crotch
--this green, barnacled thing, which the Greenlanders call the crown, and
.. < chapter lxxix 14  THE PRAIRE >
.. < chapter lxxv 17  THE RIGHT WHALE'S HEAD--CONTRASTED VIEW >
.. < chapter lxxvi 24  THE BATTERING-RAM >
.. < chapter lxxvii 2  THE GREAT HEIDELBURGH TUN >
.. < chapter lxxviii 2  CISTERN AND BUCKETS >
.. < chapter lxxx 2  THE NUT >
.. < chapter lxxxi 21  THE PEQUOD MEETS THE VIRGIN >
.. < chapter lxxxii 24  THE HONOR AND GLORY OF WHALING >
.. <p 330 >
.. <p 331 >
.. <p 331 >
.. <p 332 >
.. <p 333 >
.. <p 333n. >
.. <p 334 >
.. <p 334 >
.. <p 335 >
.. <p 336 >
.. <p 337 >
.. <p 337n. >
.. <p 338 >
.. <p 339 >
.. <p 340 >
.. <p 341 >
.. <p 342 >
.. <p 343 >
.. <p 343 >
.. <p 344 >
.. <p 345 >
.. <p 346 >
.. <p 347 >
.. <p 348 >
.. <p 348 >
.. <p 349 >
.. <p 350 >
.. <p 351 >
.. <p 352 >
.. <p 353 >
.. <p 354 >
.. <p 355 >
.. <p 356 >
.. <p 357 >
.. <p 358 >
.. <p 359 >
.. <p 359 >
.. <p 360 >
.. <p 361 >
And as that famous great tierce is mystically carved in front, so the whale's
As in decapitating the whale, the operator's instrument is brought close to
At the instant of the dart an ulcerous jet shot from this cruel wound, and
Bremen.  At one time the greatest whaling people in the world, the Dutch and
But in the great Sperm Whale, this high and mighty god-like dignity inherent
But mark the other head's expression.  See that amazing lower lip, pressed by
But though boats have been taken down and lost in this way, yet it is this
By thunder, men, we must do something or go for it.  No use prying there;
Derick, that without pausing to put his oil-can and lamp-feeder aboard, he
Dericks, my friend.
Dome of the Pantheon.  Still, in that famous work of his, Lavater not only
Egypt of every man's and every being's face.  Physiognomy, like every other
Furthermore, you are now to consider that only in the extreme, lower, backward
German's aside with such force, that both Derick and his baffled harpooneer
Germans are now among the least; but here and there at very wide intervals of
Hurrah!  this is the way to sail now.  Every keel a sun-beam!  Hurrah! --Here
I know not that it has been defined before.  A quoin is a solid which differs
Indiamen chance to crowd and crush towards each other in the docks, what do
Indian unconsciously revealing by those struggles the perilous depth to which
Indian wigwam.  Good Lord!  is this the road that Jonah went?  The roof is
Indian, was so heedless and reckless as to let go for a moment his one-handed
It might have been darted by some Nor' West Indian long before America was
Jungfrau was again lowering her boats; though the only spout in sight was
Leviathan was slain at the very first dart.  And let no man doubt this Arkite
Leviathan, in the creature's living intact state, is an entire delusion.  As
Look your last, now, on these venerable hooded heads, while they yet lie
Nantucket irons entered the whale.  Blinding vapors of foam and white-fire!
Now, how had this noble rescue been accomplished?  Why, diving after the
Over this lip, as over a slippery threshold, we now slide into the mouth.
Pacific.  For some reason, the Jungfrau seemed quite eager to pay her
Perseus, a son of Jupiter, was the first whaleman; and to the eternal honor of
Perseus, the prince of whalemen, intrepidly advancing, harpooned the monster,
Phidias's marble Jove, and what a sorry remainder!  Nevertheless, Leviathan
Physiognomically regarded, the Sperm Whale is an anomalous creature.  He has
Physiognomist or Phrenologist has as yet undertaken.  Such an enterprise would
Quoin is not a Euclidean term.  It belongs to the pure nautical mathematics.
Read if it you can.
Rock of Gibraltar, or for Gall to have mounted a ladder and manipulated the
Securing this block, so that it hangs down from the yard-arm, he swings one
Shakespeare's or Melancthon's rise so high, and descend so low, that the eyes
Soon, while the crews were awaiting the arrival of the ship, the body showed
Sperm Whale is a very curious thing; nor has any fisherman yet adequately
Sperm Whale's head, I would have you, as a sensible physiologist, simply
Sphinx, to the phrenologist his brain seems that geometrical circle which it
Starbuck's orders, lines were secured to it at different points, so that ere
Starbuck, who had the ordering of affairs, hung on to it to the last; hung
Still rolling in his blood, at last he partially disclosed a strangely
Stubb, no, no, it's a coffee-pot, Mr. Starbuck; he's coming off to make
Tashtego was sinking utterly down to the bottom of the sea!  But hardly had
The three boats, in the first fury of the whale's headlong rush, bumped the
The whale, like all things that are mighty, wears a false brow to the common
This reminds us that the Right Whale really has a sort of whisker, or rather
Tun of the Sperm Whale embraces the entire length of the entire top of the
Turkish Muezzin calling the good people to prayers from the top of a tower.  A
Under all these circumstances, would it be unreasonable to survey and map
Upon my word were I at Mackinaw, I should take this to be the inside of an
Whale is far less liable to this accident than any other species.  Where one
Whale were paved with horses' hoofs.  I do not think that any sensation lurks
Whale, a Platonian, who might have taken up Spinoza in his latter years.
Whale, the front of his head presents an almost wholly vertical plane to the
Whether he had lost that fin in battle, or had been born without it, it were
With a terrific snap, every fastening went adrift; the ship righted, the
Yarman --Pull--won't ye?  Are ye going to let that rascal beat ye?  Do ye love
Yarman!  Sail over him!  But so decided an original start had Derick had,
a dairy-maid's pail of new milk.  Carefully lowered from its height, the
a little off from the ship.  Ha!  ha!  cried Daggoo, all at once, from his
a moustache, consisting of a few scattered white hairs on the upper part of
a sulk and pout that will yield you some 500 gallons of oil and more.  A great
a very long pole.  Inserting this pole into the bucket, Tashtego downward
about a foot across.  Probably the mother during an important interval was
about twelve feet high, and runs to a pretty sharp angle, as if there were a
above the rest of the company, to whom he vivaciously cries --he seems some
above-ground, in the air; how vast, then, the burden of a whale, bearing on
abreast with great speed straight before the wind, rubbing their flanks as
absolutely undeveloped skulls.  But the curious external resemblance, I take
accident against the vessel's side, so as firmly to embrace the jaw.  Does
accounted for it.  Usually the dead Sperm Whale floats with great buoyancy,
adornment of his wondrous tun.  Moreover, as that of Heidelburgh was always
affect the countenance of the whale.  For as in landscape gardening, a spire,
afraid, my butter-boxes, cried Stubb, casting a passing glance upon them as
after her four young keels, and thus they all disappeared far to leeward,
after the lapse of many hours or several days, the sunken whale again rises,
all their dexterous might, they caught repeated smoking turns with the rope
almost before Tashtego could have reached its interior bottom.  Meantime,
along with you, cried Flask, it's a lamp-feeder and an oil-can.  He's out
alpine land lying along the snow line.  Few are the foreheads which like
amount of oil.  Ere this, you must have plainly seen the truth of what I
an arm thrust forth from the grass over a grave.  both!  both! --it is both!
analogical probability.  At any rate, if we yield to it, we must grant a far
and a lump of which sinks in it like lead almost.  But the tendency to rapid
and be ready to abide by this; that though the Sperm Whale stove a passage
and delivered and married the maid.  It was an admirable artistic exploit,
and from the same point of view.  Indeed, place this reversed skull (scaled
and furnishing a supply of
and gazing upon its thousand pipes?  For a carpet to the organ we have a rug
and no prominence of any kind to denote their place; therefore, there must
and now over the water --Daggoo, through a thick mist of spray, was dimly
and rather than be thus foiled of his game, Derick chose to hazard what to
and the Dragon; which dragon I maintain to have been a whale; for in many
and though
animal balloon.  A line-of-battle ship could hardly keep him under then.  In
animals there are certain valves or flood-gates in many of their veins,
appalling to the wounded whale must have been such huge phantoms flitting over
are instances where,
arm, and his blind eyes, he must die the death and be murdered, in order to
arm, impotently rebounds from it.  It is as though the forehead of the Sperm
arrived, and we duly met the ship Jungfrau, Derick De Deer, master, of
as almost to defy pursuit for the time.  At this juncture, the Pequod's keel
as in a drought a river will flow, whose source is in the well-springs of
as ordinary fish possess what is called a swimming bladder in them, capable,
aslant.  To cross to the other side of the deck was like walking up the steep
astern --St. Bernard's dogs, you know --relieve distressed travellers.
astonishing atmospheric weight we ourselves stand up under; even here,
at once a queer accident happened.  Whether it was that Tashtego, that wild
at that hanging lower lip!  what a huge sulk and pout is there!  a sulk and
at will, of distension or contraction; and as the Sperm Whale, as far as I
at.  But supplementary to this, it has hypothetically occurred to me, that
atmospheric distension and contraction.  If this be so, fancy the
attached to one end of the whip; while the other end, being stretched across
august hump, if I mistake not, rises over one of the larger vertebrae, and
avast, I say with your handspikes, and run one of ye for a prayer book and a
backward toss.  The unmannerly Dutch dogger!  cried Stubb.  Pull now,
backwards, so as to furnish more of a retreat for the long socket which
barbs; and darted over the head of the German harpooneer, their three
be lodged there.  Here is a vital point; for you must either satisfactorily
be sagaciously urged, how is this?  We thought the tissued, infiltrated head
be very long in following.  Can you catch the expression of the Sperm Whale's
beadle on his throne.  In some particulars, perhaps, the most imposing
beautiful crystalline shoots, as when the first thin delicate ice is just
because no vital part of him had thus far been struck.  His life, as they
because of its incredible power of swimming.  Nevertheless, the Fin-Back's
been gained, were now in long quick coils flung back all dripping into the
before described.  But as the stumps of harpoons are frequently found in the
before?  it must be, he's lost his tiller.  As an overladen Indiaman bearing
begun upon his whole arterial system; and when this is heightened by the
beheld clinging to the pendulous tackles, while poor, buried-alive
behind him to upbubble.  Who's got some paregoric?  said Stubb, he has the
behind its vast outworks, like the innermost citadel within the amplified
being pitched out too, when you strike a hill.  Hurrah!  this is the way a
belong, though but subordinately, to so emblazoned a fraternity.  The gallant
beneath them by the cords.  By very heedful management, when the ship drew
best; for it is but reasonable to presume, that the longer the stricken
bestowed upon it; in which case you will take great interest in thinking how
billow that he broke, he spasmodically sank in the sea, or sideways rolled
bird's nest in its crotch.  At any rate, when you watch those live crabs that
blemish at all.  Nay, it is an added grandeur.  A nose to the whale would have
blinds and whiskers for a moment, and, standing in the Right Whale's mouth,
blinds of bone; no huge lower lip; and scarcely anything of a tongue.  Again,
blood, with swift fury blindly darted at the craft, bespattering them and
board.  As the three boats lay there on that gently rolling sea, gazing down
board.  Is this the creature of whom it was once so triumphantly said -- Canst
boat's bottom --and by the Lord, the mast there's budding.  This won't do,
boats, and soon the whale broke water within two ship's lengths of the
boats; the timidity and liability to queer frights, so common to such whales;
body that a cry was heard from the Pequod's mast-heads, announcing that the
boldly striking out with one hand, and with the other clutching the long hair
bone in the Right Whale; his Venetian blinds alone sometimes weighing more
boneless toughness,  inestimable by any man who has not handled it.  The
bones of the monster that Perseus slew.  When the Romans took Joppa, the same
boys.  Look at that Yarman!  The short and long of it is, men, will ye spit
braining feats; I trust you will have renounced all ignorant incredulity,
brandy?  A hogshead of brandy, then, to the best man.  Come, why don't some of
brawny, buoyant heroes do sometimes sink.  Be it said, however, that the Sperm
brigandish expression to his otherwise solemn countenance.
bring your mind to bear on it, the other will be utterly excluded from your
brisk.
bristles, fins, whiskers, blinds, or whatever you please, furnish to
broad view, the Right Whale's head bears a rather inelegant resemblance to a
bulk, and now and then partly turning over on his cumbrous rib-ends, expose
buoyant matter in him.  But it is not so.  For young whales, in the highest
buried harpooneer should grasp it, and so be hoisted out.  In heaven's name,
buries, rolls, and wallows on her way; so did this old whale heave his aged
but he had not gained his ship's side, when whales were almost simultaneously
but not the less true events, perhaps anywhere to be found in all recorded
by a ladder to the summit, have a peep down the mouth; and were it not that
by the other parts of the head remaining undetached from it, so that it sank
by the stiffest fluke-chains, for it was plain that unless artificially
by the unusual yellowish incrustations overgrowing him, seemed afflicted
by the wonderful comparative magnitude of his spinal cord.  But leaving this
by this tooth, and look about us where we are.  What a really beautiful and
cabinet there is no telling.  But a sudden stop was put to further
canal is filled with much the same strangely fibrous substance -- the spinal
capacity.  Now, of course, this
capsized, if still persisting in locking arms with the body; then, when the
capsizing, and he thundering away at his men in a mighty rage; --that was a
carcase sank.  Now, this occasional inevitable sinking of the recently killed
cases this lower jaw --being easily unhinged by a practised artist --is
certainty of this criterion is far from demonstrable, yet it has the savor of
characteristics of other beings than man.  Therefore, though I am but ill
chaste-looking mouth!  from floor to ceiling, lined, or rather papered with a
child-magian thoughts.  they deified the crocodile of the nile, because the
clean out of sight!  Man overboard!  cried Daggoo, who amid the general
clearing the whip --which had somehow got foul of the great cutting tackles --a
closely as so many spans of horses in harness.  They left a
command was given to break clear from it, such was the immovable strain upon
completely overtake and pass him.  as for derick, he seemed quite confident
comprehensive, combining, and subtle than man's, that he can at the same
concluding by hinting that his ship was indeed what in the Fishery is
consisting of only two parts, travelling through a single-sheaved block.
consternation first came to his senses.  Swing the bucket this way!  and
contact, any merely hard substance,
contemporary consciousness.  How is it, then, with the whale?  True, both his
contradict the old proverb about carrying coals to Newcastle, yet sometimes
convolutions, to their apprehensions, it seems more in keeping with the idea
cord --as the brain; and directly communicates with the brain.  And what is
cord remains of an undecreasing girth, almost equal to that of the brain.
costly material the heidelburgh Tun was coated within, but in superlative
crater -- in another cavity seldom exceeding ten inches in length and as many
crater to bed that part of the mass; while under the long floor of this
creatures, nay in man himself, very often the brow is but a mere strip of
cried Starbuck, there's no need of that!  But humane Starbuck was too late.
cried Starbuck; he mocks and dares me with the very poor-box I filled for
crocodile is tongueless; and the Sperm Whale has no tongue, or as least it
crowbars.  By itself this sufficiently illustrates the obvious fact I drive
crown bone, form those Venetian blinds which have elsewhere been cursorily
crown has been put together for him in this marvellous manner.  But if this
cubic-yards of his sperm magazine.  Lying in strange folds, courses, and
cupola, monument, or tower of some sort, is deemed almost indispensable to
curious articles, including canes, umbrella-stocks, and handles to
curious internal structure of the thing operated upon.  Regarding the Sperm
curled brow of the bull has a touch of the grand in it.  Pushing heavy cannon
d'ye say, Tashtego; are you the man to snap your spine in two-and-twenty
darts are counted as stubble; he laugheth at the shaking of a spear!  This
dead bodies of captured whales, with the flesh perfectly healed around them,
deck, ahab abruptly accosted him, without at all heeding what he had in his
deck, let us now have a good long look at the Right Whale's head.  As in
deep.  Any man may kill a snake, but only a Perseus, a St.  George, a Coffin,
deliverance, or rather, delivery of Tashtego, was successfully accomplished,
demi-gods and heroes, prophets of all sorts, who one way or other have shed
depression in the forehead's middle, which, in man, is Lavater's mark of
dexterous heave and toss, had wrought a somerset upon the Indian; so that
did indubitably conduct a lamp-feeder as Flask did declare.  As he mounted the
difference: about the head this envelope, though not so thick, is of a
different heads.  To sum up, then; in the Right Whale's there is no great
diminish; though that way viewed, its grandeur does not domineer upon you
disciple Spurzheim failed to throw out some hints touching the phrenological
discolored bunch or protuberance, the size of a bushel, low down on the flank.
discovered.  What other marvels might have been rummaged out of this monstrous
discoveries, by the ship's being unprecedentedly dragged over sideways to the
disengaged and hoisted on deck for the purpose of extracting the ivory teeth,
distinction upon it, I am transported with the reflection that I myself
dive into this matter of whaling, and push my researches up to the very
diver could be seen.  Some hands now jumped into a boat alongside, and pushed
divide it into two quoins, whereof the lower is the bony structure, forming
divided by an internal wall of a thick tendinous substance.  The lower
doing nothing particular to prove it.  It is moreover declared in his
don't budge an inch --we're becalmed.  Halloo, here's grass growing in the
down the Hindostan coast with a deck load of frightened horses, careens,
down to the human magnitude) among a plate of men's skulls, and you would
down, come down!  yelled the seamen to Daggoo, but
downward strain at the bows, the boats gave a sudden bounce upwards, as a
drop, he would still remain suspended; the negro having cleared the foul
dropped into the sea, like Niagara's Table-Rock into the whirlpool; the
dropping a boat, her captain was impelled towards us, impatiently standing
ears, or mouth; no face; he has none, proper; nothing but that one broad
east when troubled with the morning.  in the repose of the pasture, the
egotistical sky; in the now unhaunted hill; then be sure, exalted to Jove's
eight whales, an average pod.  Aware of their danger, they were going all
elastic white fibres throughout its whole extent.  The upper part, known as
end of the rope, till it is caught and firmly held by a hand on deck.  Then,
enormous cutting tackles, whose hempen combinations, on one side, make
enormous surface of him --in a full grown sperm whale something less than
enterprises in which a careful disorderliness is the true method.  The more I
entire strain now depended, seemed every instant to be on the point of giving
entirely under your chin.  Moreover you observe that the whale has no external
enveloped in the thickest and toughest of ox-hide.  That bravely and uninjured
estimated as piled wood is --by the cord; and all obedient to one volition, as
even with the water, while the three sterns tilted high in the air.  And the
expansive monster; when I shall show you some of his more inconsiderable
exposure to the air, after death, it soon begins to concrete; sending forth
extraordinary pressure of water at a great distance below the surface, his
eye upon this strange, crested, comb-like incrustation on the top of the mass
eyes, in themselves, must simultaneously act; but is his brain so much more
facing death?  This Right Whale I take to have been a Stoic; the Sperm
falling into a cistern ashore; an accident which not seldom happens, and
far-off and undiscernible hills.  Even now, when the boats pulled upon this
fashion.  And as those ancient dames moved about gaily, though in the jaws of
fearful of expending more line, though the position was a little ticklish.
features; and since it perhaps
feet for a good sized whale, you have more than twenty-six feet for the depth
fellow feels when he's going to Davy Jones --all a rush down an endless
felt them in his seat.  The next moment, relieved in a great part from the
figure with the base downwards.  As it passes through the remaining vertebrae
fire or not?  Oh!  see the suds he makes!  cried Flask, dancing up and down
firmament of a forehead, pleated with riddles; dumbly lowering with the doom
fishery, upon whom these spikes fall with impaling force.  But far more
flag which I fling half out to the world.  Apply this spinal branch of
flesh from the back; this it is that often torments the Leviathan into soon
flesh perfectly firm about it.  Who had darted that stone lance?  And when?
fluke-chains, to pry them adrift from the timber-heads; and so low had the
flukes, and the lances were darted into him, they were followed by steady
flush and May of life, with all their panting lard about them; even these
followed him, had considerably the start of the Pequod's keels.  There were
for ever escape.  But no sooner did his harpooneer stand up for the stroke,
for his true brain, you can then see no indications of it, nor feel any.
for the great head itself, that was doing as well as could be expected.  And
for the ulceration alluded to.  But still more curious was the fact of a
force as to gouge deep grooves in them; while so fearful were the
forehead seem now faded away.  I think his broad brow to be full of a
formed when two hostile currents meet.  His spout was short, slow, and
forming in water.  A large whale's case generally yields about five hundred
fortifications of Quebec.  So like a choice casket is it secreted in him,
found betokened in his backbone.  I would rather feel your spine than your
free his white-ash, and while, in consequence, Derick's boat was nigh to
from a wedge in having its sharp end formed by the steep inclination of one
from some mighty fountain, and with half-stifled melancholy gurglings the
from the Pequod's fish-spears!  In that sloping afternoon sunlight, the
from the glory of the exploit had St.  George but encountered a crawling
full cranial development.  So that this whole enormous boneless mass is as one
full-freighted vessel is caught by an appointed hand, and quickly emptied
gabled roof of a house.  The ship groaned and gasped.  Many of the ivory
gallons of sperm, though from unavoidable circumstances, considerable of it
game having risen to leeward, he and the other three German boats that soon
general shape the noble Sperm Whale's head may be compared to a Roman
generated in him; he swells to a prodigious magnitude; becomes a sort of
genius.  But how?  Genius in the Sperm Whale?  Has the Sperm Whale ever
gigantic galliot-toed shoe.  Two hundred years ago an old Dutch voyager
glistening white membrane, glossy as bridal satins.  But come out now, and
goaded by it into more than sufferable anguish, the whale now spouting thick
god-dam, --cried the Indian.  Fiercely, but evenly incited by the taunts of
going head out, and sending his spout before him in a continual tormented
gone, and not a single flying-fish yet captured to supply the deficiency;
good time for Starbuck, Stubb, and Flask.  With a shout, they took a mortal
great, wide wake, as though continually unrolling a great wide parchment upon
greater age to the Right Whale than at first glance will seem reasonable.  In
greyhounds!  Dog to it!  I tell ye what it is, men --cried Stubb to his crew
guides the bucket into the Tun, till it entirely disappears; then giving the
habergeon: he esteemeth iron as straw; the arrow cannot make him flee;
had had, Derick's boat still led the chase, though every moment neared by
had shot by the three German boats last lowered; but from the great start he
hammered substance, as I have before said, much heavier than the sea water,
hand, now to that, he yawed in his faltering flight, and still at every
hand-over-hand, down the other part, the Indian drops through the air, till
hand; but in his broken lingo, the German soon evinced his complete
hard to say.  Only wait a bit, old chap, and I'll give ye a sling for that
harder, and deeper and deeper into the Tun, until some twenty feet of the
harpoon was found imbedded in his flesh, on the lower part of the bunch
harpooneers that this rapid sounding would soon exhaust the lines, that using
has any other brain than that palpable semblance of one formed by the
has to ram his long pole harder and
have him.  With one intent all the combined rival boats were pointed for this
have likewise fallen into Plato's honey head, and sweetly perished there?
have relaxed, leaving him there in that ungainly sort of plight, a reproach
have the heart in them to march boldly up to a whale.  Let not the modern
he by loss of blood, that he helplessly rolled away from the wreck he had
he don't sling thee with it, cried Starbuck.  Give way, or the German will
he had sunk.  At this instant, while Daggoo, on the summit of the head, was
he shot by; ye'll be picked up presently --all right --I saw some sharks
head in your jolly-boat, your noble conceptions of him are never insulted by
head; and since --as has been elsewhere set forth --the head embraces one third
heads for hours, and never discover that organ.  The ear has no external leaf
health, and swelling with noble aspirations, prematurely cut off in the warm
hearing?  Not at all. -- Why then do you try to enlarge your mind?  Subtilize
high seat, the great Sperm Whale shall lord it.  Champollion deciphered the
highly cultured, poetical nation shall lure back to their birth-right, the
him must have seemed a most unusually long dart, ere the last chance would
him not five minutes ago! --then in his old intense whisper -- give way,
him, and the other in an exactly opposite direction?  If he can, then is it as
hint to operate as it may with the phrenologists, I would merely assume the
hint.  so long as a man's eyes are open in the light, the act of seeing is
his back a column of two hundred fathoms of ocean!  It must at least equal the
his foreign rivals.  The only thing they feared, was, that from being already
his hammock at night in profound darkness --his last drop of Bremen oil being
his head!  Stand by, men; he stirs, cried Starbuck, as the three lines
his lamp-feeder at the other boats.  The ungracious and ungrateful dog!
history.  You observe that in the ordinary swimming position of the Sperm
hold on the great cabled tackles suspending the head; or whether the place
honorableness and antiquity; and especially when I find so many great
horses, birds, serpents, and fish; and dwells in detail upon the
houses.
how the lovely Andromeda, the daughter of a king, was tied to a rock on the
huge, humped old bull, which by his comparatively slow progress, as well as
human science, is but a passing fable.  If then, Sir William Jones, who
hunters.  His motions plainly denoted his extreme exhaustion.  In most land
idle whim, but it has always seemed to me, that the extraordinary
ignorance of the White Whale; immediately turning the conversation to his
immense snuff-box, with a hinge at one end, instead of one side.  If you pry
imperceptible from without.  Is it not curious, that so vast a being as the
important thing in not pushing their investigations from the cerebellum
impregnable, uninjurable wall, and this most buoyant thing within; there
in Hackluyt uses the following elegant language: There are about two hundred
in any other part of the creature.  Though in life it remains perfectly fluid,
in certain directions.  Not so with the whale; one of whose peculiarities it
in depth --reposes the mere handful of this monster's brain.  The brain is at
in it.  Bethink yourself also of another thing.  When two large, loaded
in the bows instead of the stern.
in the brow is so immensely amplified, that gazing on it, in that full front
in the forehead's wrinkles, you seem to track the antlered thoughts descending
in the teeth, too, of the most untoward and apparently hopeless impediments;
in this way; several tubs had been filled with the fragrant sperm; when all
inches of perpendicular rope were visible at the bows.  Seems it credible
inclined plane is angularly filled up, and almost squared by the enormous
inclined plane!  Hurrah!  this whale carries the everlasting mail!  But the
indomitable, you will yet have reason to know.
indomitableness in the Sperm Whale.  And that the great monster is
inexplicable manner in which he now depresses his head altogether beneath the
inlayings of her bulwarks and cabins were started from their places, by the
inside of the whale's mouth; another, hogs' bristles; a third old gentleman
intelligence.  It is plain, then, that phrenologically the head of this
into a large tub.  Then re-mounting aloft, it again goes through the same
into its eternal blue noon; and as not a single groan or cry of any sort,
into the sea.  Haul in!  Haul in!  cried Starbuck again; he's rising.  The
invaluable contents.  It is this decapitated end of the head, also, which is at
investigated, is there any incongruity in this comparison.  It may be but an
involuntarily confound it with them; and remarking the depressions on one
involuntary; that is, he cannot then help mechanically seeing whatever
irresistibleness of that might, to which the most impalpable and destructive
is impossible to square.  In the full-grown creature the skull will measure at
is of so mighty a magnitude, all his proportions are so stately, that the
is over, a stout iron-bound bucket, precisely like a well-bucket, has been
is so exceedingly small, as to be incapable of protrusion.  If hereafter any
is spilled, leaks, and dribbles away, or is otherwise irrevocably lost in the
is, therefore, in some sort, the outer convex mould of it.  From its relative
is, to have an entire nonvalvular structure of the blood-vessels, so that
it is quite impossible for him, attentively, and completely, to examine any
it on deck.  This particular tongue now before us; at a passing glance I
it the Germans were not the first men to perceive.  A foreign friend once
it up, so as to get it overhead, and expose its rows of teeth, it seems a
it was.  Now, had Tashtego perished in that head, it had been a very precious
it.  Let us now with whatever levers and steam-engines we have at hand, cant
its affrighted moisture into the air.  From this last vent no blood yet came,
its hand, was for one swift moment seen hovering over the bulwarks.  The
itself.  We have thee there.  Not at all, but I have ye; for at the time
jaw is afterwards sawn into slabs, and piled away like joists for building
jaw, like the Sperm Whale's.  Nor in the Sperm Whale are there any of those
jet; while his one poor fin beat his side in an agony of fright.  Now to this
jets from the new made wound, which kept continually playing, while the
know, has no such provision in him; considering, too, the otherwise
known her fear; but the fear of this vast dumb brute of the sea, was chained
known to the young Orient World, he would have been deified by their
laborious; coming forth with a choking sort of gush, and spending itself in
lads --such a sog!  such a sogger!  Don't ye love sperm?  There goes three
lamp-feeder and oil can, with some remarks touching his having to turn into
lance-head of stone being found in him, not far from the buried iron, the
landsman would have thought, that beneath all that silence and placidity, the
landsmen, though they themselves may have either seen or heard of some one's
last expiring spout.  As when by unseen hands the water is gradually drawn off
latitude and longitude, you still occasionally meet with their flag in the
latter is entirely and evenly covered over with a membrane, so as to be quite
lead-lined chocks of the boats, whence the three
least twenty feet from his apparent forehead in life; it is hidden away
least twenty feet in length.  Unhinge the lower jaw, and the side view of
leaving little but the dense tendinous wall of the well --a double welded,
leg was presented; but well knowing that that was not as it ought to be, and
life may be said to pour from him in incessant streams.  Yet so vast is the
lifeless head throbbing and heaving just below the surface of the sea, as if
light the gay bridals and other merry-makings of men, and also to illuminate
like a ship's jib-boom.  This whale is not dead; he is only dispirited; out
like iron or wood.  No, they hold there a large, round wad of tow and cork,
likened its shape to that of a shoemaker's last.  And in this same last or
limpid, and odoriferous state.  Nor is this precious substance found unalloyed
line, rammed down the bucket into the now collapsed well, meaning that the
lines, of which, hardly an instant before, not one hand's breadth could have
long enough and broad enough to shade half Xerxes' army.  Who can tell how
long every boat was a buoy; the sunken whale being suspended a few inches
long, hanging straight down at right-angles with his body, for all the world
look around you afresh.  Seeing all these colonnades of bone so methodically
look at this portentous lower jaw, which seems like the long narrow lid of an
lung-celled honeycombs there may possibly have some hitherto unknown and
made; lay panting on his side, impotently flapped with his stumped fin,
magazine; he has, therefore, to be uncommonly heedful, lest a careless,
magnetic wires, the life and death throbs of the whale, so that every oarsman
man, cried Stubb, are you ramming home a cartridge there? --Avast!  How
marring the bows.  It was his death stroke.  For, by this time, so spent was
marvellous a thing in him, as if a man were able simultaneously to go through
measure ten inches across, being eight in height, and of a triangular
men's lamp-feeders.  Every one knows the fine story of Perseus and Andromeda;
men, like fifty thousand line-of-battle-ship loads of red-haired devils.  What
mentioned.  The edges of these bones are fringed with hairy fibres, through
merry May-day gods of old; and livingly enthrone them again in the now
might occasion great trouble; -- he had thrust back the leg, and by a
might with some reason assert that this sinking is caused by an uncommon
mind of fastening to an elephant in a tilbury on a plain --makes the
modifications of expression discernible therein.  Nor have Gall and his
moment of time attentively examine two distinct prospects, one on one side of
monster's run was a brief one.  Giving a sudden gasp, he tumultuously sounded.
more buoyant than in life.  But the reason of this is obvious.  Gases are
more forcibly than in beholding any other object in living nature.  For you see
more, and all four boats were diagonically in the whale's immediate wake,
most exalted potency is.  But if from the comparative dimensions of the
most modifies and finally controls their combined expression; hence it would
mounts aloft; and without altering his erect posture, runs straight out upon
much worn down, but undecayed; nor filled after our artificial fashion.  The
muffins --oh, do, do spring --he's a hundred barreler --don't lose him now
must involve them.  But the ear of the whale is full as curious as the eye.  If
mystical brow is as that great golden seal affixed by the German emperors to
name of Jungfrau or the Virgin.  His necessities supplied, Derick departed;
natural spout-hole in his head was only at intervals, however rapid, sending
nay, not so much as a ripple or a bubble came up from its depths; what
near its bottom, so as to scuttle a large hole there; then dropping his
neck-vertebra; and in that vertebra the bottom of the spinal canal will
needs have been some other unknown reason in the present case fully to account
nestle here on this bonnet, such an idea will be almost sure to occur to you;
next, a loud splash announced that my brave Queequeg had dived to the
nigh, the whale was transferred to her side, and was strongly secured there
no one point precisely; not one distinct feature is revealed; no nose, eyes,
no proper nose.  And since the nose is the central and most conspicuous of the
noble soul.  I rejoice in my spine, as in the firm audacious staff of that
nose; and that what nose he has --his spout hole --is on the top of his head;
not killed with any sordid intent.  Those were the knightly days of our
not this whole head seem to speak of an enormous practical resolution in
now come to separate these two objects, and surround each by a circle of
now quiet, swinging perch overhead; and looking further off from the side,
now, I pray you, to that marvellous and --in this particular instance
objects are before him.  Nevertheless, any one's experience will teach him,
obstetrics on the run, as you may say.  Yes, it was a running delivery, so
of a hollow tree, found such exceeding store of it, that leaning too far
of all elements contributes.  Now, mark.  Unerringly impelling this dead,
of boats, and ships, and men.  Nor, in profile, does this wondrous brow
of cathedrals; would that make him any longer of sight, or sharper of
of him? --that's his boiling water.  Oh!  he's all right, is the Yarman.  Go
of his general might to regard that mystic part of him as the seat of his
of his head.  This aspect is sublime.  In thought a fine human brow is like the
of his head; it has hypothetically occurred to me, I say, that those mystical
of its rear end, which is the high end, you will be
of oil, and has come a-begging.  However curious it may seem for an oil-ship
of pitching his lamp-feeder at the advancing boats, and also his oil-can;
of sorts, perhaps; hypochondriac; and so supine, that the hinges of his jaw
of that sort go down, twenty Right Whales do.  This difference in the
of the Indian.  Drawn into the waiting boat, they were quickly brought to
of the Sperm Whale, was the lightest and most corky part about him; and yet
of the headsman when drawing near to his prey, the three mates stood up
of the softest Turkey --the tongue, which is glued, as it were, to the floor of
of the tun, when it is lengthwise hoisted up and down against a ship's side.
of the whale.
of the whole length of the creature, then setting that length down at eighty
often mistaken for it.  And consequently Derick and all his host were now in
old chronicles whales and dragons are strangely jumbled together, and often
old times, there seem to have prevailed the most curious fancies concerning
on the whip itself, the hoisters ran him high up to the top of the head,
on this, you would take the head for the trunk of some huge oak, with a
on to it so resolutely, indeed, that when at length the ship would have been
one fish, because not only was he the largest, and therefore the most
or ninetieth bucket came suckingly up --my God!  poor Tashtego --like the twin
ordinarily submerged, was plainly revealed.  His eyes, or rather the places
our calling be it said, that the first whale attacked by our brotherhood was
out the whale's spine phrenologically?  For, viewed in this light, the
over the sperm whale's head, so that it may lie bottom up; then, ascending
over, it sucked him in, so that he died embalmed.  How many, think ye,
pads of lard diminished and all their bones heavy and rheumatic; then you
paintings of this scene mislead us; for though the creature encountered by
part of its summit, in phrenological phrase you would say --This man had no
particular, the demand has long been on the decline.  It was in Queen Anne's
pearl-colored membrane, like the line of a fine pelisse, forming the inner
pen-knife, and cut the big chains.  Knife?  Aye, aye, cried Queequeg, and
perceived that the front of the Sperm Whale's head is a dead, blind wall,
performing his agile
perhaps with the double view of retarding his rivals' way, and at the same
peril of the thing, it is to be doubted whether this course is always the
perishing; smothered in the very whitest and daintiest of fragrant
phrenology to the Sperm Whale.  His cranial cavity is continuous with the first
physiognomical view to be had of the Sperm Whale, is that of the full front
pieces for the honor of old Gay-head?  What d'ye say?  I say, pull like
piratical hawks.  But the bird has a voice, and with plaintive cries will make
pitiable to see.  but pity there was none.  For all his old age, and his one
pitiable; while still, in his amazing bulk, portcullis jaw, and omnipotent
pity, now, that this unfortunate whale should be hare-lipped.  The fissure is
point of view.  If you stand on its summit and look at these two f-shaped
pointed it out to me, in the skeleton of a foe he had slain, and with the
pole have gone down.  Now, the people of the Pequod had been baling some time
poor Tash fell in, the case had been nearly emptied of its lighter contents,
pout, by carpenter's measurement, about twenty feet long and five feet deep;
prairie-like placidity, born of a speculative indifference as to death.
previous place I have described to you how the blubber wraps the body of the
profession, when we only bore arms to succor the distressed, and not to fill
profound darkness; then, in order to see one of them, in such a manner as to
profounder and more subtle meanings, how may unlettered Ishmael hope to read
proudly, occasionally backing the after oarsman with an exhilarating cry of,
provincials then?  What befel the weakling youth lifting the dread goddess's
prow of his canoe.  Now, I consider that the phrenologists have omitted an
putting one foot into it, so as the better to secure his slippery hand-hold
pyramidical silence.  And this reminds me that had the great Sperm Whale been
quadruped's spine, you will be struck with the resemblance of its vertebrae
qualified for a pioneer, in the application of these two semi-sciences to the
quantity of blood in him, and so distant and numerous its interior fountains,
queer adventure of the Gay-Header's will be sure to seem incredible to some
quite a wilderness of ropes in that quarter.  Thus much being said, attend
race, had not a righteous judgment descended upon him in a crab which caught
ranged about, would you not think you were inside the great Haarlem organ,
rarely achieved by the best harpooneers of the present day; inasmuch as this
read in thirty languages, could not read the simplest peasant's face, in its
receives the boom-like lower jaw; you observe that the mouth is entirely
reciprocating bucket in a veritable well, dropped head-foremost down into
regular ridge-pole there; while these ribbed, arched, hairy sides, present us
replenished with the most excellent of the wines of the Rhenish valleys, so
reptile of the land, instead of doing battle with the great monster of the
rescue.  One packed rush was made to the side, and every eye counted every
respects.  While yet some distance from the Pequod, she rounded to, and
richness that coating could not possibly have compared with the silken
riding-whips.  With a long, weary hoist the jaw is dragged on board, as if it
right.  While the ear of the former has an external opening, that of the
ripple, as moment followed moment, and no sign of either the sinker or the
rising again to meet the sharp lance of his foes.  Yet not to speak of the
rocket.  Almost in the same instant, with a thunder-boom, the enormous mass
rope; so that when the body has gone down, they know where to look for it
ropes went straight down into the blue --the gunwales of the bows were almost
round until the deep cistern will yield no more.  Towards the end, Tashtego
sailing down the Peruvian coast, when earthquakes caused the beach to gape.
same deficiency which in the sculptured Jove were hideous, in him is no
sanctum sanctorum of the whale.  Only one sweeter end can readily be recalled
sea, owing to the body's immensely increasing tendency to sink.  However,
sea-coast, and as Leviathan was in the very act of carrying her off,
secrets of his belly; lay like a log, and died.  It was most piteous, that
seem that its entire absence, as an external appendage, must very largely
seemed to have egress at his other buried extremity, causing the waters
seizing the carpenter's heavy hatchet, he leaned out of a porthole, and
self-esteem, and no veneration.  And by those negations, considered along with
set sail.  Akin to the adventure of Perseus and Andromeda --indeed, by some
settle this matter with yourself, or for ever remain an infidel as to one of
severest pointed harpoon, the sharpest lance darted by the strongest human
shadows that the three boats sent down beneath the surface, must have been
sharp cracking noise was heard; and to the unspeakable horror of all, one of
shoe, that old woman of the nursery tale, with the swarming brood, might
shook as if smitten by an iceberg.  The one remaining hook, upon which the
short-handled sharp spade being sent up to him, he diligently searches for
should follow the prophets.  For with the strength of a thousand thighs in his
should say it was a six-barreler; that is, it will yield you about that
side, instead of the mutual tapering of both sides.
significantly call it, was untouched.  As the boats now more closely
sinking in this substance was in the present instance materially counteracted
situation then, I should call this high hump the organ of firmness or
skeleton was carried to Italy in triumph.  What seems most singular and
skull, whoever you are.  A thin joist of a spine never yet upheld a full and
slewed round his boat and made after the leviathan lamp-feeders.  Now, the
slipperiness of the curb of the Sperm Whale's well.  But, peradventure, it may
sloping part of the front of the head, is there the slightest vestige of bone;
slowly descending head, Queequeg with his keen sword had made side lunges
small ice-field will, when a dense herd of white bears are scared from it
so disposed, momentarily neared him.  In that fine, loose, chivalrous attitude
so nigh to his mark, he would be enabled to dart his iron before they could
so often will insist upon obtruding even when beholding the mightiest royal
so.  In profile, you plainly perceive that horizontal, semi-crescentic
some unexaggerated, intelligent estimate of whatever battering-ram power may
specialities and concentrations of potency everywhere lurking in this
species is no doubt imputable in no small degree to the greater quantity of
specific gravity in the fish so sinking, consequent upon this absence of
spermaceti; coffined, hearsed, and tombed in the secret inner chamber and
spinal theory for a moment, in reference to the sperm whale's hump.  This
spiracles, the apertures in its sounding-board.  Then, again, if you fix your
spout is so similar to the Sperm Whale's, that by unskilful fishermen it is
spout-holes, you would take the whole head for an enormous bass-viol, and
spray-column lowers and lowers to the ground --so the last long dying spout
spring --slap-jacks and quohogs for supper, you know, my lads --baked clams and
spring-head of it, so much the more am I impressed with its great
square feet --the pressure of the water is immense.  We all know what an
stand for each other.  Thou art as a lion of the waters, and as a dragon of
start forwards, and slantingly ranged up on the German's quarter.  An instant
started with --that the Sperm Whale and the Right Whale have almost entirely
steel to iron, began slashing at the largest fluke-chains.  But a few strokes,
still in bold, hopeful chase.  Oh!  many are the Fin-Backs, and many are the
still more, for many feet after emerging from the brain's cavity, the spinal
stomach-ache, I'm afraid.  Lord, think of having half an acre of stomach-ache!
story; for in the ancient Joppa, now Jaffa, on the Syrian coast, in one of
struck by its resemblance to the human skull, beheld in the same situation,
subdivided part, called the junk, is one immense honeycomb of oil, formed by
substance which so impregnably invests all that apparent effeminacy.  In some
such a thing really happens; and in the present case Captain Derick De Deer
suddenly relieved hull rolled away from it, to far down her glittering copper;
suddenly vibrated in the water, distinctly conducting upwards to them, as by
suggestively important in this story, is this: it was from Joppa that Jonah
superincumbent mass of the junk and sperm.  At the high end the skull forms a
supposed to be indirectly derived from it --is that famous story of St.  George
surface of the Sperm Whale's case.  It will have been seen that the Heidelburgh
surface, and anon swims with it high elevated out of the water; considering
surrounded him, the whole upper part of his form, with much of it that is
swims behind it all a mass of tremendous life, only to be adequately
sword of him that layeth at him cannot hold, the spear, the dart, nor the
sword, had thrust his long arm far inwards and upwards, and so hauled out our
symptoms of sinking with all its treasures unrifled.  Immediately, by
tail, Leviathan had run his head under the mountains of the sea, to hide him
tail, there was enough to appal the stoutest man who so pitied.  Seeing now
takes the jam which would have snapped all their oaken handspikes and iron
tapped.
technically called a clean one (that is, an empty one), well deserving the
terrible is it to behold, when fathoms down in the sea, you see some sulky
terrific portcullis; and such, alas!  it proves to many a poor wight in the
than a ton; from this incumbrance the Sperm Whale is wholly free.  But there
than all three tigers --Queequeg, Tashtego, Daggoo -- instinctively sprang to
that I have known some whalemen who peremptorily deny that the Sperm Whale
that but a very few moments more would give the Pequod's boats the advantage,
that by three such thin threads the great Leviathan was suspended like the big
that hard white whalebone with which the fishermen fashion all sorts of
that moment seized with some momentous idea; whereas it was only the poor
that of a Fin-Back, belonging to the species of uncapturable whales,
that spite of all their gallantry, he would have proved the victor in this
that this would be the case, and occasionally with a deriding gesture shook
that though he can take in an undiscriminating sweep of things at one glance,
that valiant whaleman of old is vaguely represented of a griffin-like shape,
the Case, may be regarded as the great Heidelburgh Tun of the Sperm Whale.
the Case.  But to comprehend it aright, you must know something of the
the German, the Pequod's three boats now began ranging almost abreast; and,
the Pagan temples, there stood for many ages the vast skeleton of a whale,
the Shore Whaling, on soundings, among the Bays of New Zealand, when a Right
the Southern fishers the bonnet of the Right Whale; fixing your eyes solely
the affirmative fact of his prodigious bulk and power, you can best form to
the awful Chaldee of the Sperm Whale's brow?  I but put that brow before you.
the battle is depicted on land and the saint on horseback, yet considering
the blade of his midship oarsman.  While this clumsy lubber was striving to
the blinding vapor cleared away, when a naked figure with a boarding-sword in
the body is now completely separated from it, with a lantern we might descend
the bucket within grasp of the Indian, to whom another person has reached up
the bumps on the head of this Leviathan; this is a thing which no
the canal tapers in size, but for a considerable distance remains of large
the cause of his devious wake in the unnatural stump of his starboard fin.
the completion of the scene; so no face can be physiognomically in keeping
the cranium and jaws, and the upper an unctuous mass wholly free from bones;
the creature's age, as the age of an oak by its circular rings.  Though the
the creature?  this he?  Oh!  that unfulfilments
the crossing and re-crossing, into ten thousand infiltrated cells, of tough
the deck, is there held by two or three alert hands.  These last now hoist
the deck; but Tashtego was long in coming to, and Queequeg did not look very
the demonstrations of two distinct problems in Euclid.  Nor, strictly
the great ignorance of those times, when the true form of the whale was
the jaw is lashed down to ringbolts, and a tackle being rigged from aloft,
the knot-holes of the noblest oaks when prostrate, so from the points which
the ladies their busks and other stiffening contrivances.  But in this
the lens of Herschel's great telescope; and his ears capacious as the porches
the most appalling,
the most delicate oil; yet, you are now to be apprised of the nature of the
the mouth.  It is very fat and tender, and apt to tear in pieces in hoisting
the outer end of the lower jaw.  Sometimes these tufts impart a rather
the overhanging main-yard-arm, to the part where it exactly projects over the
the pod in advance, seemed questionable; for it is not customary for such
the proper place to begin breaking into the Tun.  In this business he proceeds
the reflection that he has a nose to be pulled.  A pestilent conceit, which
the sailors do?  They do not suspend between them, at the point of coming
the same course with fencing and boxing, riding and rowing.  I know that this
the sea, saith ezekiel; hereby, plainly meaning a whale; in truth, some
the sea.  Full in this rapid wake, and many fathoms in the rear, swam a
the small fish, when open-mouthed he goes through the seas of brit in feeding
the smallest insect.  So that when I shall hereafter detail to you all the
the solemn churches that preach unconditional inoffensiveness by all to all.
the spot where an entrance is subsequently forced into the spermaceti
the timber-heads to which the fluke-chains and cables were fastened, that it
the tun of the whale contains by far the most precious of all his oily
the two enormous hooks suspending the head tore out, and with a vast
the unobstructed elasticity of its envelop; considering the unique interior
the whale's eyes had once occupied, now protruded blind bulbs, horribly
the whale, as you may say; even so, in a shower, with the like
their decrees.  It signifies God: done this day by my hand.  But in most
their feet, and standing in a diagonal row, simultaneously pointed their
their glorying crews all over with showers of gore, capsizing Flask's boat and
themselves seem clear, eternal, tideless mountain lakes; and all above them
then I have another idea for you.  If you attentively regard almost any
then over and over slowly revolved like a waning world; turned up the white
there are certain curious marks, curves, hollows, and ridges, whereby some
there to drink, as the Highland hunters track the snow prints of the deer.
there was a terrible tumult.  Looking over the side, they saw the before
there?  It is the same he died with, only some of the longer wrinkles in the
these
these blinds.  One voyager in Purchas calls them the wondrous whiskers
they drag out these teeth, as Michigan oxen drag stumps of old oaks out of
thing for salamander giants only to encounter; how small the chances for the
third of his entire length from the front.  Wherefore, you must now have
this great Tun of Heidelburgh, and with a horrible oily gurgling, went
this mighty monster is actually a diademed king of the sea, whose green
this skull is as the side view of a moderately inclined plane resting
this visual matter as touching the Leviathan.  But I must be content with a
thou fill his skin with barbed irons?  or his head with fish-spears?  The
thou makest it sink in an element of a far greater specific gravity than
thoughtlessness, do we nowadays fly under the same jaws for protection; the
thousand dollars, men! --a bank! --a whole bank!  The bank of England! --Oh, do,
three hundred on a side, which depending from the upper part of the head or
through an ear which is smaller than a hare's?  But if his eyes were broad as
through his spiracle, and this made the sight of him unspeakably
through the Isthmus of Darien, and mixed the Atlantic with the Pacific, you
through the spinal canal.  For I believe that much of a man's character will be
throughout on a level base.  But in life --as we have elsewhere seen --this
thus, through the courage and great skill in obstetrics of Queequeg, the
ticklish business of securing what you can.  I know not with what fine and
time economically accelerating his own by the momentary impetus of the
time that the bone was in its glory, the farthingale being then all the
time.  In the central blinds of bone, as they stand in their natural order,
time; never mind if they lie side by side and touch each other.  But if you
to a strung necklace of dwarfed skulls, all bearing rudimental resemblance
to all his tribe, who must, no doubt, imprecate lock-jaws upon him.  In most
to be borrowing oil on the whale-ground, and however much it may invertedly
to drawing teeth.  With a keen cutting-spade, Queequeg lances the gums; then
to hold on; till at last --owing to the perpendicular strain from the
to the skull proper.  It is a German conceit, that the vertebrae are
to their ears, this important difference is to be observed between the sperm
to this great head it begins to assume different aspects, according to your
together; for one will soon sink, unrecorded, in the sea; the other will not
tongue on each side of his mouth.  As every one knows, these same hogs'
torn shreds, followed by strange subterranean commotions in him, which
towards the sky his one beating fin.  So have I seen a bird with clipped wing,
treats of the various faces of men, but also attentively studies the faces of
twenty line-of-battle ships, with all their guns, and stores, and men on
two things --however large or however small --at one and the same instant of
umbrella being a tent spread over the same bone.  But now forget all about
under the head, much in the same way, indeed, as though your own mouth were
unnatural dislocation.  In
unsuspected connexion with the outer air, so as to be susceptible to
untimely stroke should invade the sanctuary and wastingly let out its
up and enchanted in him; he had no voice, save that choking respiration
up mountain defiles, the elephant's brow is majestic.  Human or animal, the
upheld, the body would at once sink to the bottom.  It so chanced that almost
upon first cutting into him with the spade, the entire length of a corroded
us our coffee, is the Yarman; don't you see that big tin can there alongside
utmost monster of the seas was writhing and wrenching in agony!  Not eight
vacillations of movement displayed by some whales when beset by three or four
vain handspikes and crows were brought to bear upon the immovable
valiant chase of this unnearable brute.  The Virgin crowding all sail, made
valuable whale, but he was nearest to them, and the other whales were going
vast plaited forehead forms innumerable strange devices for the emblematical
veil at Sais?
venerable leviathans to be at all social.  Nevertheless, he stuck to their
versions of the Bible use that word itself.  Besides, it would much subtract
vertebrae of which he was inlaying, in a sort of basso-relievo, the beaked
very comfortably be lodged, she and all her progeny.  But as you come nearer
very slowly and deliberately indeed, affording Queequeg a fair chance for
vibration the enormous mass sideways swung, till the drunk ship reeled and
view, you feel the Deity and the dread powers
vintages; namely, the highly-prized spermaceti, in its absolutely pure,
volition, in which their divided and diametrically opposite powers of vision
wad.  Finally, though, as will soon be revealed, its contents partly comprise
wake, though indeed their back water must have retarded him, because the
walls to find where the gold is masoned in.  By the time this cautious search
war-chariot (especially in front, where it is so broadly rounded); so, at a
was exactly, there is no telling now; but, on a sudden, as the eightieth
was impossible to cast them off.  Meantime everything in the Pequod was
water; you observe that the lower part of that front slopes considerably
wavingly held by the German.  Impossible! --a lamp-feeder!  Not that, said
way; an event still more likely from the violent motions of the head.  Come
we go like three tin kettles at the tail of a mad cougar!  This puts me in
we saw an arm thrust upright from the blue waves; a sight strange to see, as
weight of fifty atmospheres.  One whaleman has estimated it at the weight of
weight to an eight day clock.  Suspended?  and to what?  To three bits of
well of sperm; no ivory teeth at all; no long, slender mandible of a lower
were an anchor; and when the proper time comes --some few days after the other
were spilled out, and sailed over by the three flying keels.  Don't be
whale and the
whale be a king, he is a very sulky looking fellow to grace a diadem.  Look
whale now settled that the submerged ends could not be at all approached,
whale should see the world through so small an eye, and hear the thunder
whale soon ceasing to sound, for some time they remained in that attitude,
whale stays under water, the more he is exhausted.  Because, owing to the
whale's head as a solid oblong, you may, on an inclined plane, sideways
whale's proper brain, you deem it incapable of being adequately charted,
whale, I will do my endeavor.  I try all things; I achieve what I can.
whale, and perilously drew over his swaying
whale, as the rind wraps an orange.  Just so with the head; but with this
whale, floating there suspended, with his prodigious jaw, some fifteen feet
whale.  At the middle of the forehead horizontally subdivide this upper quoin,
whalemen calculate
whales that thus sank were old, meagre, and broken-hearted creatures, their
whatever; and into the hole itself you can hardly insert a quill, so
wheel-spokes fly, boys, when you fasten to him that way; and there's danger of
when it shall have ascended again.  It was not long after the sinking of the
when pierced even by so small a point as a harpoon, a deadly drain is at once
where he stood was so treacherous and oozy; or whether the Evil One himself
where his eyes had been, were beheld.  As strange misgrown masses gather in
whereby when wounded, the blood is in some degree at least instantly shut off
which is a lesson by no means to be forgotten.  Midwifery should be taught in
which the Right Whale strains the water, and in whose intricacies he retains
which the city's legends and all the inhabitants asserted to be the identical
while every moment whole tons of ponderosity seemed added to the sinking bulk,
while stretching from them, on both sides, was the foaming swell that he made.
white-bone or swell at his broad muzzle was a dashed one, like the swell
wild wood-lands.  There are generally forty-two teeth in all; in old whales,
will that help him; jamming that iron-bound bucket on top of his head?  Avast,
wind I ever knew to blow from astern; but look, did ever whale yaw so
with its side or belly considerably elevated above the surface.  If the only
with much less reason too than the Indian's, considering the exceeding
with one hand holding on to the heavy tackles, so that if the head should
with such great velocity, moreover,
with the jaundice, or some other infirmity.  Whether this whale belonged to
with the next trial, he came forth in the good old way --head foremost.  As
with those wondrous, half vertical, scimetar-shaped slats of whale-bone, say
without a single organ or tender prominence of any sort whatsoever.
without the elevated open-work belfry of the nose.  Dash the nose from
wonderful comparative smallness of his brain proper is more than compensated
wondrously minute is it.  It is lodged a little behind the eye.  With respect
word to the seamen at the whip, up comes the bucket again, all bubbling like
work --Queequeg, Daggoo, and Tashtego, being all accomplished dentists, are set
world.  If you unload his skull of its spermy heaps and then take a rear view
would have it to fall out so, without stating his particular reasons; how it
would have you investigate it now with the sole view of forming to yourself
would not elevate one hair of your eye-brow.  For unless you own the whale,
wounded arm, cried cruel Flask, pointing to the whale-line near him.  Mind
wrinkled granite hieroglyphics.  But there is no Champollion to decipher the
written a book, spoken a speech?  No, his great genius is declared in his
ye burst a blood-vessel?  Who's that been dropping an anchor overboard --we
ye?  cried Stubb to the body, don't be in such a devil of a hurry to sink!
you are an entire stranger to their race, you might hunt over these two
you are but a provincial and sentimentalist in Truth.  But clear Truth is a
you observe that his eyes and ears are at the sides of his head, nearly one
yourself the truest, though not the most exhilarating conception of what the
