
























































































     ( As told at the Golden Inn.)
     All at once the out-stretched arm gave a peculiar motion and then remained
     And as for Pirates, when they chance to cross each other's cross-bones, the
     Barrens and Salisbury Plains of the sea, two whaling vessels descrying each
     But sliding down the ropes like baleful comets, the two Canallers rushed into
     But to this their leader as fiercely objected, reserving that priority for
     Days, weeks passed, and under easy
     During the night, Radney had an unseamanlike way of sitting on the
     For three hundred and sixty miles, gentlemen, through the entire breadth of
     Good a mast-head as any, sir.  Will you mount?  That I will, and thank ye
     I say three years, but I am pretty sure it was more than that.  Here are
     It was a cloudy, sultry afternoon;
     Nevertheless, this same expressive word has now for many years been in
     On the fourth day of the sail, a large canoe was descried, which seemed to
     Queequeg, said I, come along, you shall be my lawyer, executor, and
     Radney, pretending not to have heard the sailors' talk.  "Thunder away at it!"
     Sing out and say something, my hearties.  Roar and pull, my thunderbolts!
     Smuggled on board, somehow, before the ship sailed. (Strong, strong, boys! )
     So far as what there may be of a
     So ignorant are most landsmen of some of the plainest and most palpable
     South-eastward from the Cape, off the
     That protection could only consist in his own predominating brain and heart
     That's it --that's it.  Now ye do something; that looks like it, my
     The Cape of Good Hope, and all the watery region round about there, is much
     The ostensible reason why Ahab did not go on
     The phantoms, for so they then
     There are certain queer times and occasions
     This latter circumstance, with its own particular accompaniments, forming
     Though, consumed with the hot fire of his
     Time!  time!  Dough-Boy hurried below, glanced at the watch, and reported
     Was it not so, O Don Miguel!  thou Chilian whale, marked like an old
     Where-away?  On the lee-beam, about two miles off!  a school of them!
     Who would have thought
     Yes, that's the law.  I should like to see a boat's crew backing water up to a
     and accursed fiends beckoned him to leap down among them; when this hell in
     and considering that Starbuck, notwithstanding, was famous for his great
     and discover sights more sweet and strange than any Cyclades or Islands of
     and every stunsail spread.  The best man in the ship must take the helm.
     and let us hear what he can say for himself."  For a moment the exhausted
     and partially beneath a thin layer of water, also, the whales were swimming.
     and such like pretty exclamations.  Why it is that all Merchant-seamen, and
     and we're your men; but we won't be flogged." "Turn to!  I make no
     and with curses, the appalling beauty of the vast milky mass, that lit up by
     be in a hurry.  Why don't you snap your oars, you rascals?  Bite something,
     business of heaving down the ship to stop the leak.  But to such unresting
     but it was to no purpose.  And in this way the two went once slowly round the
     circumstance in point, peculiarly interesting to the writer hereof.
     complete boat's crew must leave the ship, and hence as the boat steerer or
     far off upon the sea; and finally fell to rearing and plunging in the boat's
     fears of ultimate retribution, had constrained them to surrender at
     for a vast practical joke, though the wit thereof he but dimly discerns,
     for granted the ship had struck against a rock; but when the amazement was a
     for leagues and leagues are flanked by ancient and unentered forests, where
     for what was thought to be one of the spare boats, and even solicitously
     friends, one saint's eve, smoking upon the thick-gilt tiled piazza of the
     give way, all four boats.  Thou, Flask, pull out more to leeward!  Aye,
     he had rather a peculiar way of talking to them in general, and especially
     hereabouts in this dull, warm, most lazy, and hereditary land, we know but
     in a whisper to his crew, then speaking out loud again: A sad business,
     insulated, immemorial, unalterable countries, which even in these modern
     man walked.  But though the ship so swiftly sped, and though from every eye,
     miasmas, with all the other common perils incident to wandering in the heart
     milliner's tiller decorated with gay cords and ribbons.  But the whale-boat
     rocks, with all the other ordinary subjects of fearful contemplation, 
     run a muck from the bowsprit to the taffrail; and if by any devilishness of
     sense of peculiar dread at this flitting apparition, as if it were
     she would infallibly encounter him there.  So, too, with some other feeding
     ship she now meets.  Besides, they would exchange the whaling news, and have
     some of the ship's company; but Archy's fancied discovery having some time
     stand no nonsense.  I will now refer you to Langsdorff's Voyages for a little
     the Town-Ho had all but certainly arrived in perfect safety at her port
     the circular.  This chart divides the ocean into districts of five degrees
     the forecastle.  In a few minutes the scuttle was opened, and, bound hand
     the ship Essex, Captain Pollard, of
     the water covering every rib and plank, so that to our downward gazing eyes
     they swore they were ready for that, or for any other mad thing, for
     though in after life he had long followed our austere Atlantic and your
     tightly clenched hand.  Though the body was erect, the head was thrown back
     told his persecutor that if the hammer but grazed his cheek he (Steelkilt)
     totally
     upon resuming the head of his watch at night.  Upon this, and one or two
     wax, day after day tore on through all the swift madness and gladness of the
     were the Loom of Time, and I myself were a shuttle mechanically weaving and
     whose eyes had been setting to windward like two fixed stars, suddenly
     with truly nautical duties, such being the case with his comrades.  I mention
     you pour out again."  Freely depicted in his own vocation, gentlemen, the
     you will clearly perceive that, according to all human reasoning,
 "A pretty scholar," laughed the Lakeman."Adios, Senor!" and leaping into the
 "Aye, aye, my merry lads, it's a lively leak this; hold a cannikin, one of
 "Aye, aye, sir," said Steelkilt, merry as a cricket.  "Lively, boys, lively,
 "Like a lanyard for your bag; but it's an odd one, seems to me." "Yes,
 "Oh!  certainly," said the Captain and the key clicked.  It was at this
 "Turn to!  turn to! --I make no promise; --to your duty!  Do you want to sink
 "Well for our northern friend, Dame Isabella's Inquisition wanes in Lima,"
 "You are a coward!" hissed the Lakeman.  "So I am, but take that."  The mate
"We have seen many whale-ships in our harbors, but never heard of your
"but I think it will answer.  Shipmate, I haven't enough twine, --have you
(Pull, my boys!) Sperm, sperm's the play!  This at least is duty; duty and
-- Corrupt as Lima.  It but bears out your saying, too; churches more
-- He's got fits, that
--Buffalo!  Pray, what is a Lakeman, and where is Buffalo?" said Don
--aye, chance, free will, and necessity --no wise incompatible --all
--he speaks of the mysterious and mortal attack of the animal.
--justice demanded it; but for the present, considering their timely
--merry's the word.  Pull, babes --pull, sucklings -- pull, all.  But what the
--neither twine nor lanyard were seen again; but the next night an iron ball,
.  By that circular, it appears that precisely
.. < chapter L 27  AHAB'S BOAT AND CREW.  FEDALLAH >
.. < chapter li 16  THE SPIRIT-SPOUT >
.. < chapter lii 13  THE ALBATROSS >
.. < chapter liii 17  THE GAM >
.. < chapter liv 26  THE TOWN-HO'S STORY >
.. < chapter xlix 15  THE HYENA >
.. < chapter xlv 24  THE AFFIDAVIT >
.. < chapter xlvi 22  SURMISES >
.. < chapter xlvii 14  THE MAT-MAKER >
.. < chapter xlviii 2  THE FIRST LOWERING >
.. <p 196n. >
.. <p 198 >
.. <p 199 >
.. <p 200 >
.. <p 200 >
.. <p 201 >
.. <p 202 >
.. <p 203 >
.. <p 204 >
.. <p 204n. >
.. <p 205 >
.. <p 205n. >
.. <p 206 >
.. <p 207 >
.. <p 208 >
.. <p 209 >
.. <p 209 >
.. <p 210 >
.. <p 211 >
.. <p 212 >
.. <p 212 >
.. <p 213 >
.. <p 214 >
.. <p 215 >
.. <p 216 >
.. <p 217 >
.. <p 218 >
.. <p 219 >
.. <p 220 >
.. <p 221 >
.. <p 222 >
.. <p 223 >
.. <p 224 >
.. <p 225 >
.. <p 225 >
.. <p 226 >
.. <p 227 >
.. <p 227 >
.. <p 228 >
.. <p 229 >
.. <p 230 >
.. <p 230 >
.. <p 231 >
.. <p 232 >
.. <p 233 >
.. <p 234 >
.. <p 234 >
.. <p 234n. >
.. <p 235 >
.. <p 236 >
.. <p 236 >
.. <p 237 >
.. <p 238 >
.. <p 239 >
.. <p 240 >
.. <p 240 >
.. <p 241 >
.. <p 242 >
.. <p 243 >
.. <p 244 >
.. <p 245 >
.. <p 246 >
.. <p 247 >
.. <p 248 >
.. <p 249 >
.. <p 250 >
.. <p 251 >
.. <p 252 >
.. <p 253 >
.. <p 254 >
.. <p 255 >
.. <p 256 >
.. <p 257 >
.. <p 258 >
.. <p 259 >
Ahab said to that tiger-yellow crew of his --these were words best omitted
Ahab that had gone to his hammock, was not the agent that so caused
Ahab, the scheming, unappeasedly steadfast hunter of the white whale; this
Among whale-wise people it has often been argued whether, considering the
And in return for that courtesy, the outward-bound ship would receive the
And often you will notice that being conscious of the eyes of the whole
And yet, though herds of whales were seen by night, not one whaleman
Archy.  Oh, I don't mind 'em, sir, said Archy; I knew it all before now.
At that moment the two wakes were fairly crossed, and instantly, then, in
Beach me, beach me on their black backs, boys; only do that for me, and I'll
Because, in the case of pirates, say, I should like to know whether that
Besides he all the time looked so easy and indolent himself, so loungingly
Besides, all the days I should now live would be as good as the days that
But a sudden, terrific, downward jerking of the boat, quickly brought his
But all this might remain inadequately estimated, were not something said
But as the mind does not exist unless leagued with the soul, therefore it
But it bade far to outstrip them; it flew on and on, as a mass of
But where this superiority in the English whalemen does really consist, it
But with Ahab the question assumed a modified aspect.  Considering that with
Canaller would make a fine dramatic hero, so abundantly and picturesquely
Canallers are; for such information may throw side-light upon my story."
Canallers, thus far apparently of one mind with him, to burst out of their
Canallers.  Pardon: who and what are they?" "Canallers, Don, are the boatmen
Captain with a heartless jeer.  "Shut us up again, will ye!" cried Steelkilt.
Captain; who, to the amazement of all hands, started back, paced the deck
Chinese jacket of black cotton funereally invested him, with wide black
Christian corn-field, and recklessly ploughing the waters of the most barbaric
Cleopatra, ripening his apricot thigh upon the sunny deck.  But ashore, all
Close to our bows, strange forms in the water darted hither and thither before
Commodore Davis of the British navy found the skeleton of a sperm whale.  Now,
Commodore's craft
Commodore's interview with that whale as providential.  Was not Saul of Tarsus
Constantinople?  Yes.  For the peculiar snow-white brow of Moby Dick, and his
D'Wolf applied immediately to the pumps to examine whether or not the vessel
Didn't I hear 'em in the hold?  And didn't I tell Cabaco here of it?  What say
Dons --nay, nay!  I cannot rehearse that now.  Let me get more into the air,
Dorchester near Boston.  I have the honor of being a nephew of his.  I have
Emperor, must in all probability have been a sperm whale.
Fearing in his heart lest this might prove but too true, the captain a little
Fishery,
Flask has.  Fits?  yes, give him fits --that's the very word -- pitch fits
Flask mounted upon gigantic Daggoo was yet more curious; for sustaining
Flask.  If his leg were off at the hip, now, it would be a different thing.
Golden Inn.  Of those fine cavaliers, the young Dons, Pedro and Sebastian,
Goney that another
Grand Canal furnishes the sole transition between quietly reaping in a
He paused: and then pausing no more, made good his word, spite of Steelkilt's
He would say the most terrific things to his crew, in a tone so strangely
Heaven itself seemed to step in to take out of his hands into its own the
High times indeed, if whaling captains were wheeled about the water on castors
However, nothing dispirits, and nothing seems worth while disputing.  He bolts
I proceed. --Now, gentlemen, so suddenly perceiving the snowy whale within
I take it --the conclusion aimed at will naturally follow of itself.  First: I
I think I have heard you say that of all whalemen you ever met, our chief
I, when they had dragged me, the last man, to the deck, and I was still
Instantly all was commotion.  The Sperm Whale blows as a clock ticks, with the
Intolerably striding along the deck, the mate commanded him to get a broom
Islanders not to approach the ship at their peril, took one man with him, and
Islands.  Conversation turning upon whales, the Commodore was pleased to be
Johnson never attained to that erudition; Noah Webster's ark does not hold it.
Justinian was Emperor and Belisarius general.  As many know, he wrote the
King Solomon, then there were promise in the voyage.  But in pursuit of those
King's Mills; how much more natural, I say, that under such circumstances
Krusenstern's famous Discovery Expedition in the beginning of the present
Lake Erie, Don; but--I crave your courtesy--may be, you shall soon hear further
Langsdorff, you must know by the way, was attached to the Russian Admiral
Lazarus lived after his resurrection; a supplementary clean gain of so many
Marmora, after having destroyed vessels at intervals in those waters for a
Mediterranean and the deep waters connecting with it.  Even now I am certain
Mediterranean.  I am told, on good authority, that on the Barbary coast, a
Miguel, after at various times creating great havoc among the boats of
Moby Dick.  For however eagerly and impetuously the savage crew had hailed the
Mr. Stubb! (seethe her, seethe her, my lads!) but never mind, Mr. Stubb,
Nantucket, was cruising in the Pacific Ocean.  One day she saw spouts,
Nantucket.  I have seen Owen Chace, who was chief mate of the Essex at the
Nantucketer, with his nondescript provincialisms, as a sort of sea-peasant.
Nevertheless, so potent an influence did this thing have on those seamen in
No: because the mails are very irregular between here and New Guinea.  In
Nor-Westers, Harmattans, Trades; any wind but the Levanter and Simoom, might
Only her lower sails were set.  A wild sight it was to see her long-bearded
Ontario, and Huron, and Superior, and Michigan, --possess an ocean-like
Others of the sailors joined with them in this attempt, and a twisted turmoil
Passion and Vanity stamping the living magnanimous earth, but the earth did
Pedro, looking downwards into the crowded plazza, with humorous concern.
Pequod bearing down upon her boats with outstretched sails, like a wild hen
Pirates and Man-of-War's men, and Slave-ship sailors, cherish such a scornful
Plain in England; if
Pollard once more sailed for the Pacific in command of another ship, but the
Procopius mentions that, during the term of his prefecture at Constantinople,
Procopius's sea-monster, that for half a century stove the ships of a Roman
Procopius, a Christian magistrate of Constantinople, in the days when
Propontis.  In the Propontis, as far as I can learn, none of that peculiar
Queequeg, while busy at the mat.  As I kept passing and repassing the
Rad were here now, I'd tell him to jump overboard and scatter 'em.  They're
Rad;" and he rose to go aft.  "You don't mean to go a begging to him!" said
Radney had spat in his face.  Any man who has gone sailor in a whale-ship will
Season-on-the-Line.  No possible endeavor then could enable her commander to
Sebastian, rising in his swinging mat of grass.  On the eastern shore of our
Secondly: People ashore have indeed some indefinite idea that a whale is an
Secondly: The ship Union, also of Nantucket, was in the year
Seen in advance of all the other indications, the puffs of vapor they spouted,
Siberian coast, and purchased by my uncle after bartering away the vessel in
Since the above was written, the statement is happily borne out by an official
Sirs." "The chicha!  the chicha!" cried Don Pedro; "our vigorous friend
So Tamerlane's soldiers often argued with tears in their eyes, whether that
So, too, Venice; I have been there; the holy city of the blessed evangelist,
So, with his ivory leg inserted into its accustomed hole, and with one hand
Soon after, two cries in quick succession on each side of us denoted that the
St.  Mark! --St.  Dominic, purge it!  Your cup!  Thanks: here I refill;  now,
Starbuck forget the old man's aspect, when one night going down into the cabin
Steelkilt --but, gentlemen, you shall hear.  It was not more than a day or two
Steelkilt and his desperadoes were too much for them all; they succeeded in
Steelkilt calculated his time, and found that his next trick at the helm
Steelkilt had been regularly assigned captain of one of the gangs;
Steelkilt; "no lies." "I am bound to Tahiti for more men." "Very good.  Let
Swimming round it we picked up the floating oars, and lashing them across the
Sydney men, are so much distrusted by our whaling captains.  Nor does it at
Sylla to the classic scholar.  But this is not all.  New Zealand Tom and Don
Tahiti, five hundred miles distant, to procure a reinforcement to his crew.
Tattoo Land?  Was it not so, O Morquan!  King of Japan, whose lofty jet
That would disable him; but he has one knee, and good part of the other left,
The air around suddenly vibrated and tingled, as it were, like the air over
The cabin-compass is called the tell-tale, because without going to the
The fetid closeness of the air, and a famishing diet, united perhaps to some
The following are extracts from Chace's narrative: Every fact seemed to
The mutineer was the bowsman of the mate, and when fast to a fish, it was
The ship, however, was by no means a large one: a Russian craft built on the
Then, with every mast-head manned, the piled-up craft rolled down before the
There's hogsheads of sperm ahead, Mr. Stubb, and that's what ye came for.
Therefore he had not solicited a boat's crew from them, nor had he in any way
These temporary apprehensions, so vague but so awful, derived a wondrous
Though, to be sure, from the small number of English whalers, such meetings
Three cheers, men --all hearts alive!  Easy, easy; don't be in a hurry --don't
Town-Ho's leak seemed again increasing, but only so as to require an hour or
Upon this, Daggoo, with either hand upon the gunwale to steady his way,
Volcano Bay on the Japanese Coast; yet it did not follow, that were the
Was it not so, O Timor Tom!  thou famed leviathan, scarred like an iceberg,
Washington, April 16th,
Whale when, sounding with his head in one direction, he nevertheless, while
Whale-ships, generally on a cruising-ground; when, after exchanging hails,
Whaler of Nantucket, was cruising in your Pacific here, not very many days'
What say ye, men?" turning to his comrades.  A fierce cheer was their
Whence he came in a mannerly world like this, by what sort of unaccountable
White Whale was seen.  During that long interval Starbuck would ever be apt to
White Whale, more especially the catastrophe.  For this is one of those
With a start all glared at dark Ahab, who was surrounded by five dusky
With one foot on each prow of the yoked war-canoes, the Lakeman laughed him
Woods, Captain Butler of old had it in his mind to capture that notorious
a black night in an open boat, when almost despairing of reaching any
a certain generous knight-errantism in them, still, while for the love of it
a fourth keel, coming from the windward side, pulled round under the stern,
a great sea-monster was captured in the neighboring Propontis, or Sea of
a horizontal spangling sun, shifted and glistened like a living opal in the
a huge, vague form.  Affrighted, we all sprang into the sea as the ship at
a ledge; the sail collapsed and exploded; a
a man of us turns to, unless you swear not to raise a rope-yarn against us.
a meeting.  There was a circumstance which at first sight seemed to entangle
a negative answer to the question he put.  For, as it eventually turned out,
a pale man, with a bandaged head, arrested them --Radney the chief mate.  Ever
a phrensy.  "The White Whale --the White Whale!" was the cry from captain,
a running sperm whale have, in a calm, been transferred to the ship, and
a sailor.  "Why not?  Do you think he won't do me a turn, when it's to help
a skewer through their necks; usage pronouncing that they must have no organs
a story." "How?  how!" cried all the young Spaniards, crowding.  "Nay, Dons,
a stupid Teneriffe man, drawing water in the main-chains, all at once
a tyro in the far ocean fisheries --a whaler at sea, and long absent from
a weariness and faintness of pondering came over him; and in the open air of
a whaling captain to jeopardize that life in the active perils of the chase.
a year or two later than the last one on her blurred and thumb-worn files.
about the open sea on planks, bits of wreck, oars, whale-boats, canoes,
about the safety of the ship, some of the seamen declared that it was only on
about to throw themselves on board an enemy's ship.  But at this critical
about.  For the long absent ship, the outward-bounder, perhaps, has letters
accessible coast, or if any other reasonable retreat is afforded them.  It is
accordance with their singular ways, shoals of small harmless fish, that for
account of his being a part owner in her.  So when they were working that
account, said
accounting for their appearance, they were for the time freed from
acted like a charm upon the crew.  Then again, Stubb was one of those odd sort
addressed his mates.  In tempestuous times like these, after everything above
administered in the vernacular.  "But as for you, ye carrion rogues," turning
advance of our bows.  For that singular craft at times evinced by the Sperm
advancing still further and further in our van, this solitary jet seemed for
advantage of his windward position, he again seized his trumpet, and knowing
adventure, so full, too, of honest wonders --the voyage of Lionel Wafer, one
affair.  I care not to perform this part of my task methodically; but shall
affected not to notice him, but unawed, went on with his gay banterings.
affecting the matter presently to be mentioned.  Now, in this history of his,
after her screaming brood; --all this was thrilling.  Not the raw recruit,
after it; when again turning the key upon them and pocketing it, the Captain
after spending his uniform interval there for several successive nights
after, his trick at the silent helm --nigh to the man who was apt to doze over
again; but the whale eluded them, and finally wholly disappeared.  In good
against the leaping waves, each man had slipped himself into a sort of
against ye unless ye attack us; but till you say the word about not flogging
ahead, the Goney (Albatross) by name.  As she slowly drew nigh, from my lofty
ahoy!  Have ye seen the White Whale?  But as the strange captain, leaning over
ain't the White Whale to-day!  Give way!  Now the advent of these outlandish
ain't those mincing knives down in the forecastle there, men?  look to those
air beneath the feet; while still she rushed along, as if two antagonistic
air; but from few of those lungs could that accustomed old cry have derived
alike the full-rigged merchant ship, the armed cruiser of the State, the
all attempts to bale out the boat.  The oars were useless as propellers,
all but her trucks.  But little King-Post was small and short, and at the
all diminish the curiousness of this matter, that to many thousands of our
all for the best.  Let all your crew pull strong, come what will. (Spring, my
all hands were turned to, and, sullenly worked by the moody seamen, the iron
all his hopes upon the one crowning fact above mentioned, however flattering
all inferiors on their guard in the matter of obeying them.  In obedience to a
all space, in repugnance to our vengeful errand, seemed vacating itself of
all these particulars so that you may understand exactly how this affair stood
all; but upon making sail to overtake it, once more it disappeared as if it
allusions of his were at times so vivid and life-like, that they would cause
along; the boat going with such madness through the water, that the lee oars
also all
altogether to abandon the collateral prosecution of the voyage.  Or at least
an agreeable chat.  For not only would they meet with all the sympathies of
an indifferent air concerning Fedallah.  He was such a creature as civilized,
an unseen whale vertically bumping the hull from beneath.  I might proceed
analytic to be verbally developed here, Ahab plainly saw that he must still
anchored the ship as far off shore as possible; loaded and ran out his two
and aft, especially about the forecastle scuttle and fore hatchway; at which
and all men his descendants, unknowing whence he came, eyed each other as
and all the time indulging, perhaps, in finical criticism upon each other's
and aloft has been secured, nothing more can be done but passively to await
and ash-holes of the earth to man these floating outlaws of whalers; and the
and betake himself where he belonged.  On the fifth morning three others of
and bound the sleeper with cords, and gagged him with cords; and shrieked
and by the goat-like craggy guns of lofty Mackinaw; they have heard the fleet
and coat.  On the table beside him lay unrolled one of those charts of tides
and cross-running seas.  Still more strange to see him giddily perched upon
and currents which have previously been spoken of.  His lantern swung from his
and days we voyaged along, through seas so wearily, lonesomely mild, that
and deaths by casualties in the fishery, ever finds a public record at home,
and distinctions of a name; had as much a name indeed as Cambyses or Caesar.
and famous, and most deadly immortal monster, Don; --but that would be too long
and fashions both warp and woof; this easy, indifferent sword must be chance
and foot, the still struggling ringleader was shoved up into the air by his
and hand, backed by a heedful, closely calculating
and last, and the last time distinctly recognized a peculiar sort of huge
and more than suspects that the joke is at nobody's expense but his own.
and passion in the end, it is above all things requisite that temporary
and round upon his head.  Less swart in aspect, the companions of this figure
and savage seas far from you to the westward, gentlemen, is it altogether
and shall he escape?  His broad fins are bored, and scalloped out like a lost
and showed the five strangers rowing Ahab, who, standing erect in the stern,
and stand a look-out there, with the same precision as if it had been day.
and strong.  Give way there, give way!  The devil fetch ye, ye ragamuffin
and subdued and yet somehow preluding was all the scene, and such an
and such as indicated resentment and fury.  He came directly from the shoal
and sweep down the planks, and also a shovel, and remove some offensive
and that's what he went into the after hold for, so often, as Dough-Boy long
and the horrid aspect and revenge of the whale, wholly engrossed my
and then, without at all alluding to the shovel, he pointed to three lads as
and though, when the ship slowly glided close under our stern, we six men in
and time himself on his way, as even then not to be wholly without prospect of
and worryings, prospects of sudden disaster, peril of life and limb; all
announcement of his quest; yet all sailors of all sorts are more or less
another little item about Gamming which must not be forgotten here.  All
anxious.  Much this way had it been with the Town-Ho; so when her leak was
any already ireful being --a repugnance most felt, when felt at all, by
any?"  But there was none in the forecastle.  "Then I must get some from old
anything in short but a surrender.  And what was more, they each insisted
anywhere in his boat, he always sits in the stern sheets on a comfortable,
appear in the newspaper obituary you will read to-morrow at your breakfast?
arm, like a fencer's, thrown half backward into the air, as if to
as a vessel of war readily passes through the Dardanelles, hence a sperm
as direful as any that lash the salted wave; they know what shipwrecks are,
as he was by his spasmodic toil at the pumps, for all his first nameless
as he was tucking the coat into his hammock for a pillow.  Twenty-four hours
as malicious.  He did not love Steelkilt, and Steelkilt knew it.  Espying the
as publicly narrated on the ship, the whole of this strange affair I now
as ready to change his berth for a boat, and with his bandaged mouth seek to
as that, Flask seemed perched at the mast-head of some ship which had sunk to
as the standard-bearer of this forlorn hope.  There, then, he sat, holding up
astern from the whirlpool; calmly looking on, he thought his own thoughts.
at a sound so strange, long drawn, and musically wild and unearthly, that the
at distant times and places popularly cognisable.  Why such a whale became
at the furthest after pointing her prow for her island haven, that the
at the other end of the boat Ahab, with one
at the same silent hour, it was again announced: again it was descried by
attention to every minute atmospheric influence which it was possible for his
attitude, it was well known, he sometimes dozed.  There was a considerable
authenticated ones too, where the captain has been known for an uncommonly
authorities, he has always been considered a most trustworthy and
away; for in a whaler wonders soon wane.  Besides, now and then such
aye, sir, cheerily cried little King-Post, sweeping round his great steering
back-foremost into death's jaws?  Can't you twist that smaller?  said Flask.
ball of free will dropped from my hand, and I stood gazing up at the clouds
band of whites necessitated, both by night and by day, and so extreme was the
barometer stood, he saw him with closed eyes sitting straight in his
barrels?  And that question once answered, pirates straightway steer apart,
barricade, and striding up and down there, defied the worst the pistols could
be content to produce the desired impression by separate citations of items,
be content with only one more and a concluding illustration; a remarkable and
be done in the case of ships actually foundering at the time.  Such,
be identically the same with those that were found there the preceding
be stripped of that strange imaginative impiousness which naturally invested
be the hated one he hunted.  But if such an hypothesis be indeed
beasts, so torn and bepatched the raiment that had survived nearly four years
been isolated instances of the presence of the sperm whale in the
been nurtured by all those agrarian
been visible at that moment; nothing but a troubled bit of greenish white
before the squall comes.  There's white water again! --close to!  Spring!
before them, "the vultures would not touch ye, ye villains!"  At sunrise he
behind the barricade.  "come out of that, ye pirates!" roared the captain,
being off the mouth of the Rio de la Plata; and the Carrol Ground, an
belonging to our grand Erie Canal.  You must have heard of it." "Nay, Senor;
below, a clamor was heard in the forecastle; and the two trembling traitors
betrayed no such far-gazing solicitudes.  The whales might have made one of
between the two men.  But there was more than this: the order about the
between them, both of which, according to their direction,  were
blinding foam that blent two whitenesses together; till of a sudden the boat
blood like a whale.  Ere the cry could go aft Steelkilt was shaking one of
blood was spilled for it.
bloodshot, and wiping the profuse sweat from his brow.  Now what cozening
blow Moby Dick into
blowing off to leeward, like the confused scud from white rolling billows.
blown-off Japanese junks, and what not; that Beelzebub himself might climb up
blows!  there!  there!  there!  she blows!  she blows!
blue morning sea.  Gentlemen, a strange fatality pervades the whole career of
blue, thus giving no distantly discernible token of the movement, though
board of the whaler we had spoken was this: the wind and sea betokened
board the stranger, had not the threatening wind forbade.  But taking
board.  Ere the squall came close to, the other boats had cut loose from
boat which was hoisted up there, a little above the ship's side.  In this
boat, as it would tip for an instant on the knife-like edge of the sharper
boat, unless maybe to stop the plug-hole with my timber toe.  Oh!  he's a
boat.  now, with the subordinate phantoms, what wonder remained soon waned
boat; it was the darted iron of Queequeg.  Then all in one welded commotion
boats below.  Hardly had they pulled out from under the ship's lee, when
boats were now in keen pursuit of that one spot of troubled water and air.
both parties speak one language, as is the case with Americans and English.
bowline secured to the rail, in which he swung as in a loosened belt.  Few or
boy's business; he might have known me before this; I told him not to prick
braiding something very carefully in his watches below.  "What are you making
bred.  Cape of Good Hope, do they call ye?  Rather Cape Tormentoto, as called
brisk gale from the northwest sprang up.  An uncommon large whale, the body
broken by the intermitting dull sound of the sword, that it seemed as if this
brooding soul into this unfaltering hunt, he would not permit himself to rest
brotherly love about it at all.  As touching Slave-ships meeting, why, they are
bubbling from
bulwarks of the quarter-deck, and leaning his arm upon the gunwale of the
buoyant self-command, he generally carries his hands in his trowsers'
but do whales have christenings?  Whom call you Moby Dick?" "A very white,
but ears, and no limbs but arms, in these critical moments.  It was a sight
but himself.  Besides, the English whalers sometimes affect a kind of
but raging gales is regularly attended to every evening; it has been known to
but so intolerably cold that we were obliged to keep on our fur clothing.  For
but to pursue the ship itself, and long withstand all the lances hurled at
but to wonder at it.  Mysteriously jetted into the clear moonlight,
but was still cruising, if haply it might light upon some token of our
by Ahab, with a view to this very complexion of things.  Because, an interval
by her aspect that the stranger vessel was a Nantucketer and shortly bound
by no means the largest of that sort, have been found at its surface.  If,
by the gods.  Immediately the hammer touched the cheek; the next instant the
by two great contrasting nations, as the Atlantic is; they furnish long
calculated to do us the most injury, by being made ahead, and thereby
calculating mischief, on the part of the whale (many of which impressions I
called for the steward to bring the heavy brass padlock, belonging to the
came an invisible push from astern, while forward the boat seemed striking on
can't see three seas off; tip us up an oar there, and let me on to that.
cannon from the bows; stacked his muskets on the poop; and warning the
cannot easily be gainsaid.  Nor is there any reason it should be.  Of what
cannot now recall), induce me to be satisfied that I am correct in my
cannot sustain
capitals of Buffalo and Cleveland, as well as Winnebago villages; they float
capricious and unreliable --they live in the varying outer weather, and they
capsizings in the water and consequent bivouacks on the deep, were matters
captain is all alive to the importance of sustaining his dignity by
captain's quest, and could he, would joyfully disintegrate himself from it,
captain, having some unusual reason for believing that rare good luck awaited
captain.  "Cross your arms, sir; throw back your head.  Now, repeat after
captain.  "Where are you bound?  and for what are you bound?" demanded
captains, officers, and not a few of the men are personally known to each
capture of Moby Dick; though he seemed ready to sacrifice all mortal
case, these spiritual throes in him heaved his being up from its base, and a
cashier Ahab.  Nor was there wanting still another precautionary motive more
casks in a line with the windlass, these sea-Parisians entrenched themselves
casually encountering each other in such inhospitable wilds, these twain, for
catastrophe.
catching hold of anything with his hands; indeed, as token of his entire,
cautious comprehensiveness and unloitering vigilance with which Ahab threw his
celerity, were casting loose the tackles and bands of the boat which swung
century.  Captain Langsdorff thus begins his seventeenth chapter.  By the
character, that upon being attacked he will frequently open his mouth, and
chasm seemed opening in him, from which forked flames and lightnings shot up,
chicha upon his silvery ruffles.  "No need to travel!  The world's one Lima.  I
chicha's very fine; and ere proceeding further I will tell ye what our
children, boys.  Lay me on --lay me on!  O Lord, Lord!  but I shall go stark,
circular, issued by Lieutenant Maury, of the National Observatory,
circumstances is it wise for any maimed man to enter a whale-boat in the
civilized creature resided.  There, headed by the Lakeman, all but five or
claim our discharge as soon as the anchor is down; so we don't want a row;
clanking at intervals through the dreary night dismally resounded through the
clearly cut against the alternating depressions of the watery horizon; while
close up to the revolving border of the confusion, and prying into the heart
closely netted, partly rolled from the pocket of the Lakeman's monkey jacket,
club hammer which he had snatched from a cask near by.  Heated and irritated
collared, and dragged along the deck like dead cattle; and, side by side,
combining the speed of the two objects for the shock; to effect which, the
come to help us --never mind from where --the more the merrier.  Pull, then, do
come; and in
coming still closer to him, where the Lakeman stood fixed, now shook the
command, now soft with entreaty.  How different the loud little King-Post.
commanding him to do his bidding.  Steelkilt rose, and slowly retreating
commanding the ship in question, is a New Englander, who, after a long life
commodore set sail in this impregnable craft for Valparaiso.  But he was
common pursuit and mutually shared privations and perils.  Nor would
common vitality to which it was conjoined, fled horror-stricken from the
common.  They supposed a sword-fish had stabbed her, gentlemen.  But the
communities, especially the Oriental isles to the east of the continent --those
companion-way.  Then opening the slide a little, the Captain whispered
companions, as if fired with revenge for their sufferings.  Again: At all
company were gazing upon these strangers, Ahab cried out to the
compass at the helm, the Captain, while below, can inform himself of the
competent, could refuse all further obedience to him, and even violently
complete spiritual man any more than mere corporeal superiority involves
completed fabric; this savage's sword, thought I, which thus finally shapes
compounded of fun and fury, and the fury seemed so calculated merely as a
comprehended when the mate uttered his command.  But as he sat still for a
concealed beneath the surface, mills round, and swiftly swims off in the
conceives an unconquerable dislike and bitterness; and if he have a chance
concentrated whisper to his men; while the sharp fixed glance from his eyes
concluding blow producing a corresponding contrast in the final aspect of the
confidential business with him.  that business consisted in fetching the
consecutive years, Moby Dick had been periodically descried, lingering in
consequently he should have been freed from any trivial business not connected
considering his monomania, to hint that his vindictiveness towards
constant use among some fifteen thousand true born Yankees.  Certainly it
constitution of
contemplative Pacific; yet was he quite as vengeful and full of social
content to recognise him by merely touching their tarpaulins when he would be
continual stream of Venetianly corrupt and often lawless life.  There's your
contrary of this has proved true.  In general, the same remark, only within a
contrasting scenery of those noble Mohawk counties; and especially, by rows of
conveniently imagine, gentlemen.  Therefore when he betrayed this solicitude
conventional world of ours --watery or otherwise; that when a person placed
conversed with his son; and all this within a few miles of the scene of the
converted from unbelief by a similar fright?  I tell you, the sperm whale will
coolly and adroitly balancing himself to the jerking tossings of his chip of a
corroborative example, if such be needed.  Lionel, it seems, was on his way
could not find it after searching the hold as low down as was possible in
could scarcely be worked rapidly enough to escape being torn from the
counterbalance any tendency to trip: Ahab was seen steadily managing his
counting-room they suppose to be elsewhere.  While yet the wondering ship's
course of the ship.
craft, and silently eyeing the vast blue eye of the sea.  Not very far
creeping on board the Pequod during the dim Nantucket dawn, as well as the
crew reached the land in their boats.  Being returned home at last, Captain
crew sat motionless on the sea.  Instantly the three spread boats in the rear
crew to be subjected to.  For all these reasons then, and others perhaps too
crew.  Entreaties, cuffs, and kicks could not drive them back, so at their
cried the ringleader to his men.  Most of them were against it; but at
cries.  To be sure the same sound was that very moment perhaps being heard all
critical moment or two, in a sudden squall say --to seize hold of the nearest
crossing the Pine Barrens in New York State, or the equally desolate Salisbury
cruising-ground itself, even though they are equally long absent from home.
crying out in a quick phrensy of hurry, Down, down all, and give way! --there
cutting and slashing at the bottom; making improvements, I suppose.  If old
cutting each other on the high seas, like a brace of dandies in Broadway;
cutting the small wooden skewers, which when the
cuttle-fish --lurks at the bottom of that sea, because large creatures, but
daily appetites.  For even the high lifted and chivalric Crusaders of old
daily usage, it was observed that she made more water in her hold than
damning thing he would have done.  It was just between daybreak and sunrise of
dangerous deck, manifested the gloomiest reserve; and more seldom than ever
dared not attempt, he snatched the rope and advanced to his pinioned foe.
darkness of that early hour of the morning, the shock was after all caused by
darted straight ahead of the bow, almost seemed as two visible needles in two
darting or stabbing at the whale; when it was observed how often he stood up
dashed against it by the seas, and were at last taken up and safely landed on
day his craft first struck the cruising ground; and Radney the mate was quite
days still preserve much of the ghostly aboriginalness of earth's primal
days that have been spent in each month in every district, and the two
days went by, and not only was the leak yet undiscovered, but it sensibly
death would be the signal for a murderous mutiny on the part of all hands.
deck, this had not unreasonably awakened a sort of superstitious amazement in
deck.  Lower away there, I say.  Such was the thunder of his voice, that
declared to be incessantly tantalizing his boat's bow with its tail --these
deemed our ship some drifting, uninhabited craft; a thing appointed to
deliberately repeated his intention not to obey.  Seeing, however, that his
delicacy, to call it so, were they governed in this matter, that they kept
demanding repose he would not seek that repose in his hammock.  Never could
demoniac waves.  By night the same muteness of humanity before the shrieks of
den, growlingly disappearing, like bears into a cave.  As the Lakeman's bare
descried.  Likewise upon the extreme stern of the boat where it was also
desire.  He sleeps with clenched hands; and wakes with his own bloody nails
desisted, but still commanded the insurgents instantly to return to their
desolation, and therefore fit roosting-place for their homeless selves.  And
despairing of ship or boat, we lifted up our eyes as the dawn came on.  The
desperation possible, seize the ship.  For himself, he would do this, he said,
destined, a thing of the utmost importance to her.  And in degree, all this
destiny into these unalterable threads.  Meantime, Queequeg's impulsive,
devil are you hurrying about?  Softly, softly, and steadily, my men.  Only
devil fetch the hindmost.
did his crew say anything to him.  Only the silence of the boat was at
difference of country make any very essential difference; that is, so long as
different
digestion gobbles down bullets and gun flints.  And as for small difficulties
dimly; but the like of whom now and then glide among the unchanging Asiatic
dip into the watery glens and hollows; the keen spurrings and goadings to
discovered lounging by them on the sea, without seeking to cultivate a more
discretion.  Emboldened by this, the Captain reiterated his demand to the
disheartening instances where truth requires full as much bolstering as error.
displayed his naked chest with the whole part of his body above the gunwale,
distance, Moby Dick rose again, with some tatters of Radney's red woollen
distant Crozetts, a good cruising ground for Right Whalemen, a sail loomed
distant Flask's boat was also lying breathlessly still; its commander
do not bow and look surprised; you know the proverb all along this coast
do not know where I can find a better place than just here, to make mention of
do not very often occur, and when they do occur there is too apt to be a
do; but gave the captain to understand distinctly, that his (Steelkilt's)
does not take much to heart; probably, because he knows that he has a few
domestic people in the temperate zone only see in their dreams, and that but
domineering and outrageous manner unconditionally reiterating his command;
don't be a fool; forget it all; we are ready to turn to; treat us decently,
done it.  First: In the year
dotted all round their banks; here and there are frowned upon by batteries,
down all events, all creeds, and beliefs, and persuasions, all hard things
down heading to leeward, we confidently looked to see them again directly in
down with a whale-pike, calling upon his officers to manhandle that atrocious
dreaminess did there then reign all over the ship and all over the sea, only
dropped like light from his erect attitude to his seat,
dry on his shoulders.  And here was Flask now standing, Daggoo with one
duty.  "Will you promise not to touch us, if we do?" demanded their
ear.  We all heard a faint creaking, as of ropes and yards hitherto muffled by
earthquake beneath us.  The whole crew were half suffocated as they were
eighteen or twenty years ago Commodore J--- then commanding an American
emotions, then, the seamen beheld this old Oriental perched aloft at such
emphatically evinced by this; that our wild whale-fishery contains so many of
endless plain, and by sailing eastward we could for ever reach new distances,
enigmatical hintings of the unaccountable Elijah.  Meantime, Ahab, out of
enormous creature of enormous power; but I have ever found that when
ensigns, that there does not seem to be much right-down hearty good-will and
ensued; while standing out of harm's way, the valiant captain danced up and
escaped entirely uninjured.  now, the captain d'wolf here alluded to as
escaping from the boats, issued from the shoal, and bore directly down upon
establishing in all respects the reasonableness of the whole story of the
evanescent.  The permanent constitutional condition of the manufactured man,
evening at the pumps, there was on this head no small gamesomeness slily
events Steelkilt was a tall and noble animal with a head like a Roman, and a
events, he had proved so thus far; but Radney was doomed and made mad, and
events, the whole circumstances taken together, all happening before my own
ever alluring us on.  Nor with the immemorial superstition of their race, and
everlastingly without any haven in store, or beat that black air without any
exact manoeuvres which he made were necessary.  His aspect was most horrible,
exactly shaping the thigh board, or clumsy cleat, as it is sometimes called,
example, on what is called the Seychelle ground in the Indian ocean, or
except he could contribute some of that information he so absorbingly sought.
exceptionable, there were still additional considerations which, though not
excitement of the moment, the Teneriffe man had instinctively and
expansiveness, with many of the ocean's noblest traits; with many of its
expectantly poised on the gunwale.  So look the long line of man-of-war's men
express object as much in view, as in setting out through the Narragansett
eyes out!  Here!  whipping out the sharp knife from his girdle; every
eyes, and producing, at the time, impressions in my mind of decided,
facing the life and death peril so close to them ahead, yet with their eyes
fact, did you ever hear what might be called regular news direct or indirect
fall into open relapses of rebellion against his captain's leadership, unless
family vault.  now then, thought i, unconsciously rolling up the sleeves of
far apart latitudes and longitudes, that unnearable spout was cast by one
far manilla; this lakeman, in the land-locked heart of our America, had yet
far mysteries we dream of, or in tormented chase of that demon phantom that,
father.  But Radney, the mate, was ugly as a mule; yet as hardy, as stubborn,
fears of being swallowed up by some dreadful tempest, or dashed upon hidden
feathers to the sky; still beckoning us on from before, the solitary jet
featuring blow at events.  Thus we were weaving and weaving away when I started
feeding-grounds, could Ahab hope to encounter his prey; but in crossing the
feeds upon that heart for ever; that vulture the very creature he creates.
feeling of forbearance the sweating Steelkilt could but ill brook this bearing
feeling towards Whale-ships; this is a question it would be hard to answer.
fields, unrivalled for fertility; by billiard-room and bar-room; through
fiend it was, gentlemen, that possessed Radney to meddle with such a man in
fifty yards of the ship --forgetful of the compact among the crew --in the
file-fish, and what not; and the whole posse of 'em are now hard at work
filling or woof of marline between the long yarns of the warp, using my own
finds himself pulling into the charmed, churned circle of the hunted sperm
firmly grasping a shroud, Ahab for hours and hours would stand gazing dead to
first hail is -- How many skulls? --the same way that whalers hail-- How many
first mere mention of the White Whale's name to another ship, Ahab for a
fishermen, mildly eyeing us as they passed, said not one word to our own
fishery there hung a terrible prestige of perilousness about such a whale as
fishery.  In a pirate, man-of-war, or slave ship, when the captain is rowed
fixed, vivid conception of those perils, and the frequency with which they
fixed, while the boat's five oars were seen simultaneously peaked.  Boat and
flinging of the two harpoons; and I think it may have been something more
flog them all round --thought, upon the whole, he would do so --he ought to
floor-screwed chair; the rain and half-melted sleet of the storm from which
flowery Nile, he indolently floats, openly toying with his red-cheeked
flowing golden beard like the tasseled housings of your last viceroy's
foibles himself.  So, then, we see that of all ships separately sailing the
fond of that diversion.  This was the fourth time in my nautical life that I
for a pedestal.
for a voyage of considerable length; that is, if it lie along a tolerably
for any object remote and blank in the pursuit, however promissory of life
for death.  And, indeed, the shock was so sudden and violent, that we took it
for one instant it tossed and gaped beneath the ship's bows like a chip at
for one of them may have received a transfer of letters from some third, and
for out of sight of land, however inland, they have drowned full many a
for shipkeepers -- that is, those not appointed to the boats, by this time
for the final dash.  Nor was Ahab unmindful of another thing.  In times of
for they are infernal villains on both sides, and don't like to see overmuch
for you, my fine bantam, that wouldn't give up.  Take that gag from his mouth,
forbearance had not the slightest effect, by an awful and unspeakable
foregoing chapter, in its earliest part, is as important a one as will be
foreign seas, and especially on a common cruising-ground.  If two strangers
found bestirring himself in the matter of making thole-pins with his own hands
found gaining once more, there was in truth some small concern manifested by
found in this volume; but the leading matter of it requires to be still
founder by the way, because his pumps were of the best, and being
four men burst up from the forecastle, saying they were ready to turn to.
four whales as well known to the students of Cetacean History as Marius or
freebooting impressions popularly connected with the open ocean.  For in their
friend, does this sort of thing often happen?  Without much emotion, though
frighten me" --and the Captain drew off with the rope to strike.  "Best not,"
from New Guinea?  Yet I tell you that upon one particular voyage which I made
from Tashtego; and the whales disappeared.  Quick, steward!  cried Ahab.
from a bed that was on fire.  Yet these, perhaps, instead of being the
from his closer vicinity Ahab had observed it.  Every man look out along his
from his head, and stamped up and down on it; then picking it up, flirted it
from the body.  In the instance where three years intervened between the
full of quick wonder and awe!  The vast swells of the omnipotent sea; the
further and more familiarly enlarged upon, in order to be adequately
gag in death the vital jaw of the whale.  But though the Lakeman had induced
gain the top of the opposite hill; the headlong, sled-like slide down its
gaining ground, Ahab must of course have been most anxious to protect himself.
gaining other pious perquisites by the way.  Had they been strictly held to
gaining the forecastle deck, where, hastily slewing about three or four large
generations, when the memory of the first man was a distinct recollection,
gentlemen present.  He peremptorily denied for example, that any whale could
gentlemen, is the inflexibility of sea-usages and the instinctive love of
gentlemen, stole over Steelkilt.  Therefore, in his ordinary tone, only a
gentlemen, the Town-Ho, Sperm
get out of order.  He knew, for example, that however magnetic his ascendency
gigantic bowls in a boundless bowling-green; the brief suspended agony of the
ginger-cakes don't ye pull? --pull and break something!  pull, and start your
give it to him!  whispered Starbuck.  A short rushing sound leaped out of the
glistening white plaited turban, the living hair braided and coiled round
glittering god uprising from the sea.  Fedallah first descried this jet.  For
go by, and no perspective promise of it to them, and then this same
gods shipwrecked him again upon unknown rocks and breakers; for the second
going on among them, as they stood with their feet continually overflowed by
good ground to impeach.  secondly: It is well known in the Sperm Whale
granting all this; yet, regarded discreetly and coolly, seems it not but a
great mischief along the spanish land.  but i should not much wonder if, in the
grin at it, and repeat gamesome stuff about spouters and blubber-boilers,
grounds, where he had at times revealed himself.  But all these seemed only
gunwale, tumbled back to our places.  There we sat up to our knees in the sea,
gush of scalding vapor shot up near by; something rolled and tumbled like an
had been holding the ship in the wind to diminish
had done the same thing.  After the ceremony was concluded upon the present
had never been.  And so it served us night after night, till no one heeded it
had received any damage from the shock, but we found that very happily it had
had thought, now, that at your temperate North the generations were cold and
hailed the mate.  Mr. Starbuck!  larboard boat there, ahoy!  a word with ye,
hand for the shuttle, and as Queequeg, standing sideways, ever and anon slid
handful, the captain called upon the Islanders to assist him in the laborious
handled Bowie-knives.  Yet was this Nantucketer a man with some good-hearted
handspikes, my hearties.  Captain, by God, look to yourself; say the word;
hard work they underwent, that upon the vessel being ready again for sea,
hardly tell where they were or what to think; but every one began to prepare
harmless little foible in the English whale-hunters, which the Nantucketer
harpoon in hand, sprang to his feet.  Though not one of the oarsmen was then
harpoon, has effected a complete escape; and, after an interval (in one
harpooneer is of the number, that subordinate is the steersman upon the
has a Gam, a thing so utterly unknown to all other ships that they never
has been known, not only to chase the assailing boats back to their ships,
has no seat astern, no sofa of that sort whatever, and no tiller at all.
hatband, where he always wore it aslant like a feather.  He loaded it, and
have every reason to believe that the food of the sperm whale --squid or
have laid him down on the lone Nantucket beach, to nurse at his maternal sea;
have personally known three instances where a whale, after receiving a
have shipped for the cruise, d'ye see; now as you well know, sir, we can
have significantly complimented me upon my facetiousness; when, I declare
have touched at a low isle of corals.  He steered away from it; but the
he cared not to consort, even for five minutes, with any stranger captain,
he had now forborne as much as comported with his humor, the Lakeman paused
he had some time before emerged, still slowly dripping from the unremoved hat
he sat, the sign and symbol of a man without faith, hopelessly holding up hope
he will pull down and pulverize that subaltern's tower, and make a little
head on a gun, was thrown out of his cabin!  Lionel then goes on to impute
head was just level with the planks,
head; and, as for his strength, let me say, that there have been examples
heads sideways, as the two crucified thieves are drawn.  "My wrist is
heap of dust of it.  Be this conceit of mine as it may, gentlemen, at all
heard of the name even; and if by chance they should hear of it, they only
heard which denotes the fullest tension of life's utmost energies.  Quitting
hearing of his officers, having sided the furthest to windward, was still
hearts of this my savage crew, and playing round their savageness even breeds
hearts-alive; pull, my children; pull, my little ones, drawingly and
heave did he thereby give to the negro's lordly chest.  So have I seen
heave to, or he would run him under water.  the captain presented a pistol.
heaved and heaved, still unrestingly heaved the black sea, as if its vast
heavy hammer within an inch of his teeth; meanwhile repeating a string of
heedfulness in the fishery; considering that I belonged to this uncommonly
height of a whaleman's discretion?  Certain.  I've lowered for whales from a
heightened by a circumstance of the Town-Ho's story, which seemed obscurely
hence not only at substantiated times, upon well known separate
her captain was just as willing to lower for a fish that moment, as on the
her headway, he cried out in his old lion voice, -- Up helm!  Keep her off
here of the peculiar usages of whaling-vessels when meeting each other in
here, thought I, with my own hand I ply my own shuttle and weave my own
here; for you live under the blessed light of the evangelical land.  Only the
him a moment, and then said: --"I tell you what it is now, Captain, rather
him as a regular headsman in the hunt --above all for Captain Ahab to be
him from its decks.  The English ship Pusie Hall can tell a story on that
him in those latitudes; and therefore being very averse to quit them, and
him to burst from it in horror again.  The latter was the eternal, living
him.  Not only that, but the subtle insanity of Ahab respecting Moby Dick was
himself by.  At any time it is a strange sight to the tyro to see with what
himself in the end, shipmate?" and going to the mate, he looked at him
himself should toss, with one dexterous fling landed the little man high and
himself with a cool, indifferent, easy, unthought of, barbaric majesty, the
himself yawned beneath him, a wild cry would be heard through the ship; and
himself; particularly as his two comrades would not yield, the one to the
hinted his desires on that head.  Nevertheless he had taken private measures
his arm towards him.  "there are a few of us here (and I am one of them) who
his back, the after-oar reciprocating by rapping his knees in front.  He is
his broad back, flaxen-haired flask seemed a snow-flake.  The bearer looked
his casual stopping-places and ocean-inns, so to speak, not his places of
his congregation.  Not at all; and therein consisted his chief peculiarity.
his delirious but still methodical scheme.  But not so in the reality,
his duty to sit next him, while Radney stood
his eye on the Captain, and jerking out such sentences as these: --"It's not
his heavy oaken sword between the threads, and idly looking off upon the
his hull hove out and repaired.  Though no small passage was before her, yet,
his life-spot became insufferable anguish; and when, as was sometimes the
his object have hitherto been spoken of, allusion has only been made to
his own canal, I have received good turns from one of these Canallers; I
his prey.  Meanwhile, all the boats tore on.  The repeated specific allusions
his pursuers; nor is it without conveying some eloquent indication of his
his very eyelashes together.  Meantime, the crew driven from the forward
hissed the Lakeman.  "But I must," --and the rope was once more drawn back for
historical and otherwise, of the fishery, they might scout at Moby Dick as a
history of his own times, a work every way of uncommon value.  By the best
hole at the next summoning of the garrison; and armed with their keen
holy as the hills. --But the story."  I left off, gentlemen, where the Lakeman
home, he loudly hailed -- Ahoy there!  This is the Pequod, bound round the
home.  As if the waves had been fullers, this craft was bleached like the
homeward-bound whaleman, the Town-Ho, was encountered.  She was manned almost
honor of securing a man who had been fully ripe for murder.  But all these were
horizon, you would have thought him some prophet or seer beholding the
horizon.  But calm, snow-white, and unvarying; still directing its fountain of
horizontal burst boiler out of a Mississippi steamer.  As for Fedallah, who was
horse walks off with a cart.  Again, it is very often observed that, if the
hospitable shore.  The dark ocean and swelling waters were nothing; the
however ignorant the world ashore may be of it, that there have been several
however transient and immediately forgotten that record.  Do you suppose that
human recognition which is the meanest slave's right; thus
hunt that mortal monster in person.  But such a supposition did by no means
hunt?  As a general thing, the joint-owners of the Pequod must have plainly
hunted such and such a latitude or longitude this year, say, will turn out to
hunter, even as a white-bearded Mufti in the thronged thoroughfares of
hunters I have now and then heard casual allusions to it.  Thirdly: Some
if encountered, should be thought capable of individual recognition from his
if the commonest chance favored, he did not at all fear that his ship would
if this were otherwise, there were not wanting other motives much more
ignorance of the entire subject may
implicated, touching the White Whale: taking all things together, I say, I
impossible to prevent its striking against him.  We were thus placed in the
impressive was the cry, and so deliriously exciting, that almost every soul
impunity, both moral and legal, his crew if so disposed, and to that end
imputed to Starbuck's driving on to his whale almost in the teeth of a squall,
in a good degree continue true to the natural, nominal purpose of the Pequod's
in a hundred would venture a lowering for them.  You may think with what
in accordance with the preternaturalness, as it seemed, which in many
in any other waters haunted by his race.  So that Monsoons, Pampas,
in command over his fellow-men finds one of them to be very significantly his
in his oil-jacket, was now calmly smoking his pipe in the rain; Mr. Stubb,
in his palms.  often, when forced from his hammock by exhausting and
in inculcating the religion of rowing.  But you must not suppose from this
in itself.  God help thee, old man, thy thoughts have created a creature in
in less than ten minutes she settled down and fell over.  Not a surviving
in order to be the first of the three, though the last of the ten, to
in some respects was over Starbuck, yet that ascendency did not cover the
in such a prodigious hurry, they run away from each other as soon as possible.
in that boat with his solitary knee fixed in the semi-circular depression in
in that way, that when he was wakened he could not well withhold the rest.
in the mate; but somehow still smothering the conflagration within him,
in the midst of despair.  Wet, drenched through, and shivering cold,
in these jaws of death!  In vain we hailed the other boats; as well roar to
in this strange mixed affair we call life when a man takes this whole universe
in vain strove to make himself heard without it.  Meantime his ship was still
incantation of revery lurked in the air, that each silent sailor seemed
incensed Radney shook the hammer within a few inches of his face, furiously
inch as he spoke; still earnestly but whisperingly urging his crew; his face
increased.  So much so, that now taking some alarm, the captain, making all
increasing the distance between.  While in various silent ways the seamen of
independent being of its own.  Nay, could grimly live and burn, while the
indifferent sword, sometimes hitting the woof slantingly, or crookedly, or
induce in some minds, as to the natural verity of the main points of this
indulged in mundane amours.
infatuated man sought to run more than half way to meet his doom, after the
infidel sharks in the audacious seas may give ear to such words, when, with
influences were struggling in her --one to mount direct to heaven, the other
influential with him.  It would be refining too much, perhaps, even
inhale its fickleness --and when retained
inlander, Steelkilt was wild-ocean born, and wild-ocean nurtured; as much
instance of three years), has been again struck by the same hand, and slain;
instant a sudden exclamation was heard that took every eye from the whale.
insufferable maledictions.  Retreating not the thousandth part of an inch;
intellectual mastership; for to the purely spiritual, the intellectual but
intensely eager eyes gazed off towards the spot where the chase had last been
intensely heated plates of iron.  Beneath this atmospheric waving and curling,
interblending bubbles borne down a rapid stream from the hills.  Pull, pull,
interblending of other threads with its own.  This warp seemed necessity; and
interest and curiosity at the time.  But almost everybody supposed that this
interesting and curious particulars in the habits of sperm whales, the
interests and employment should intervene and hold them healthily suspended
interests to that one passion; nevertheless it may have been that he was by
interflowing aggregate, those grand fresh-water seas of ours --Erie, and
intervals startlingly pierced by one of his peculiar whispers, now harsh with
interweavingly working together.  The straight warp of necessity, not to be
intimate acquaintance.  Like some poor devils ashore that happen to know an
intimation with his twisted hand he warned off the foolish and infatuated man;
into 'em.  Merrily, merrily, hearts-alive.  Pudding for supper, you know;
into a doze, verbally opened their souls to each other in three sentences;
into the hands of him who steered the boat --oftentimes a fellow who at that
into the lead-colored waters.  Queequeg and I were mildly employed weaving
into the sea, on the other flank of the whale.  He struck out through the
intolerable allegory.  First: Though most men have some vague flitting ideas
intolerably vivid dreams of the night, which, resuming his own intense
invaluable life of his ought to be carried into the thickest of the fight.
invested in looking-glasses.  I wonder if he'd give a poor devil like me the
investigations have recently proved to me, that in modern times there have
involuntarily lifted his voice for the monster, though for some little time
involve the remotest suspicion as to any boat's crew being assigned to that
irascible great man, they make distant unobtrusive salutations to him in the
is presumed to expand or contract); but never exceeds the visual sweep from
island, and remain there six days.  If I do not, may lightnings strike me!"
it may, certain it is that while the subordinate phantoms soon found their
it might be to those hopes; nor in the sleeplessness of his vow could he so
it might have been even authority over him; all this none knew.  But one
it turned out, seizing a large double war-canoe of the savages, and setting
it's not our interest; we want to be peaceable; we are ready to work, but we
it, Flask!  cried Stubb; if I had but one leg you would not catch me in a
it.  Well, well, so be it!  Can't be helped!  All right!  Give way, men!  It
it; that the full terror of the voyage must be kept withdrawn into the
its blue blandness, some thought there lurked a devilish charm, as for days
its flanks all the coasts of Africa; but to no purpose.  This man and this
its most finished graduates, and that scarce any race of mankind, except
its travels; no doubt it had thrice circumnavigated the globe, brushing with
joke.  There is nothing like the perils of whaling to breed this free and easy
judgment blown, they could not have quivered more; yet still they felt no
just quoted from Langsdorff, that I cannot forbear inserting it here for a
keep the ship free; never mind if the leak should double on her.  In truth,
killed by valiant whaling captains, who heaved up their anchors with that
knife to the line.  He cut it; and the whale was free.  But, at some
knowing, and judiciously malicious, as with direct aforethought to stave in,
laid himself open to the unanswerable charge of usurpation; and with perfect
lamp in the lantern; then stretching it on a waif pole, handed it to Queequeg
lamps and candles!  not a gallon you burn, but at least one drop of man's
last hailed him, and maddened by his long entombment in a place as black as
last loomed into view, bearing right down upon us within a distance of not
last place it was feared the insurgents might emerge, after breaking through
latest whaling intelligence from the cruising-ground to which she may be
laughed Don Sebastian.  "Proceed, Senor." "A moment!  Pardon!" cried another
leader, each in his own separate soul had suddenly lighted, it would seem,
leaking ship in a gale off Cape Horn.  Mr. Flask, said I, turning to
lee scupper-holes.  Now, as you well know, it is not seldom the case in this
leeward.  Our sail was now set, and, with the still rising wind, we rushed
legatee.  It may seem strange that of all men sailors should be tinkering at
length, in obedience to Steelkilt, they preceded him down into their dark
less wide limit, applies to the solitaries and hermits among the matured, aged
life before our urn-like prow.  But, at last, when turning to the eastward,
lifted above a whaleman, in that assertion the pirate has no solid basis to
lifted arm furnishing him with a breast-band to lean against and steady
light, to be sure, but without an object to color, and therefore a blankness
lightning-like hurtling whisper Starbuck said: Stand up!  and Queequeg,
like a quiet ghost with a clean conscience sitting inside the bars of a snug
like arrows, the eager glances shot, yet the silvery jet was no more seen
like gouty old aldermen in patent chairs.  And as for a tiller, the
like some noted four corners of a great highway, where you meet more
line is running out are pinned over the groove in the bow: when all this was
little Flask would now and then stamp with impatience; but not one added
little King-Post, who was standing close by; you are experienced in these
little broken by the bodily exhaustion he was temporarily in, he answered him
little inclined to any sort of nervous apprehensiveness touching his own
little of his entering a boat in certain comparatively harmless vicissitudes
little of your vigorous North." "Aye?  Well then, Don, refill my cup.  Your
little over, we cast the lead, and sounded, but found no ground.  The
long after midnight he would throw himself back in reveries --tallied him,
long time I fancied that the sperm whale had been always unknown in the
look-outs at those three mast-heads.  They seemed clad in the skins of
look-outs, while the quarter-deck hail was being heard from below.  Ship
looks faint; --fill up his empty glass!"  No need, gentlemen; one moment, and
lost off the Azores by a similar onset, but the authentic particulars of
loudly hailed Starbuck, Stubb, and Flask, to spread themselves widely, so as
lower jaw of the mate was stove in his head; he fell on the hatch spouting
lowered her boats, and gave chase to a shoal of sperm whales.  Ere long,
mad Gay-Header, Tashtego.  His body was reaching eagerly forward, his hand
mad idea, this; that in the broad boundless ocean, one solitary whale, even
main-mast.  Interweaving in its proper place this darker thread with the story
mainly at Steelkilt's instigation, they had resolved to maintain the
maintaining his legs.  nor is this any very easy matter; for in his rear is
make the great passage southwards, double Cape Horn, and then running down
man is elevated in that odd fashion, he has no proper foundation for his
managed his steering-oar, and so broadly gaped --open-mouthed at times --that
manner of wild conjectures as to dark Ahab's precise agency in the matter from
marching from the bosom of his wife into the fever heat of his first battle;
mariner started to his feet as if some winged spirit had lighted in the
maritime approaches to our numerous territorial colonies from the East,
marling-spikes!  Stubb's exordium to his crew is given here at large, because
mast-heads of one ship to those of the other; yet, those forlorn-looking
match across the rough sand-paper of his hand, when Tashtego, his harpooneer,
mate drawing near as he was toiling at the pump with the rest, the Lakeman
mate, Mr. Starbuck, is by far the most careful and prudent.  I suppose then,
mate.  That instant, as he fell on the whale's slippery back, the boat
mates, and harpooneers, who, undeterred by fearful rumors, were all anxious
matter of course, in the case of vessels owned in one seaport, and whose
matters consequent upon allowing a pig to run at large.  Now, gentlemen,
me board you a moment --I come in peace."  With that he leaped from the canoe,
me.  As soon as Steelkilt leaves me, I swear to beach this boat on yonder
meanwhile advancing upon the still seated Lakeman, with an uplifted cooper's
mechanically retained between his teeth, at a short distance, followed after
meditation unrelieved by action); that when they stood their long night
memorable historical instances where a particular whale in the ocean has been
men, spring!)
metropolitan freebooters
metropolitan superiority over the American whalers; regarding the long, lean
midnight ship with all its shrieking crew.  Thus, gentlemen, though an
midnight-spout had almost grown a forgotten thing, when, some days after, lo!
might merit.  But when Steelkilt made known his determination still to lead
might yet by inflexible firmness, only tempered by that common decency of
mincing knives (long, crescentic, heavy implements with a handle at each end)
mind it well--- if you flog me, I murder you!" "Say ye so?  then see how ye
mind that!  here then, from three impartial witnesses, i had a deliberate
miscellaneous hunt; if by chance the White Whale, spending his vacation in
mist still spread over the sea, the empty lantern lay crushed in the bottom
mixed their before secret treacheries together; and when their leader fell
mizzen had come down; the line tubs were fixed in their places; the cranes
model of his nose." "Damn your eyes!  what's that pump stopping for?" roared
mole under the whale's eye, which I had observed there three years previous.
moment paused; it almost seemed as though he would have lowered a boat to
moment to interchange the news; and, perhaps, sitting down for a while and
moment, and as he steadfastly looked into the mate's malignant eye and
monomaniac old man had found the awful motive to his vengeance.  But in the
monstrous fable, or still worse and more detestable, a hideous and
months or weeks as the case might be.  I survived myself; my death and burial
more at the pumps every day.  You must know that in a settled and civilized
more friendly and sociable contact.  And especially would this seem to be a
more spacious than the palm of a man's hand, and standing upon such a base
more visible, owing to the increasing darkness of the dun cloud-shadows flung
more whales than all the English, collectively, in ten years.  But this is a
morning, perched on our stays, rows of these birds were seen; and spite of
most abound in holiest vicinities.  "Is that a friar passing?" said Don
most imminent danger, as this gigantic creature, setting up its back,
most of the deadly encounters with the white whale had taken place; there the
most significant one, by which you will not fail to see, that not only is
mother's son of ye draw his knife, and pull with the blade between his teeth.
much more than its length.  Floating on the waves we saw the abandoned boat, as
multiplied the chances that each subsequently encountered whale would prove to
mumbling something about his being willing and able to do what the captain
mundane soul were in anguish and remorse for the long sin and suffering it had
murderous savage Annawon, the headmost warrior of the Indian King Philip.  I
murmured Ahab, gazing over into the water.  There seemed but little in the
must have been that, in Ahab's case, yielding up all his thoughts and fancies
mutineer made a tremulous motion of his cramped jaws, and then painfully
my frock, here goes a cool, collected dive at death and destruction, and the
my good boys, said Starbuck, in the lowest possible but intensest
myself, have known three instances similar to this; that is in two of them I
narrating to them some specific example of this two-fold enormousness, they
narrative in this book; and, indeed, as indirectly touching one or two very
natives of the Manillas; --a race notorious for a certain diabolism of
nature and long habituation far too wedded to a fiery whaleman's ways,
neatness in seamen; some of whom would not willingly drown without first
necessity, and sideways in its motions directed by free will, though thus
needs a definition, and should be incorporated into the Lexicon.  With that
negro, stooping a little, presented his flat palm to Flask's foot, and then
neither ship nor boat to be seen.  Give way, men, whispered Starbuck, drawing
neutral.  All night a wide-awake watch was kept by all the officers, forward
never tempted it since.  At this day Captain Pollard is a resident of
next door to you; under the long-flung shadow, and the snug patronizing lee
no means incapable of swaying him.  To accomplish his object Ahab must use
no words were spoken; and the silent ship, as if manned by painted sailors in
noble negro to every roll of the sea harmoniously rolled his fine form.  On
nobler than the rider.  Though truly vivacious, tumultuous, ostentatious
not alter her tides and her seasons for that.  Meanwhile Stubb, the third mate,
not create any unsubduable excitement in the forecastle.  But be all this as
not the dead man's ghost encountering
nothing without corresponding breadth.  Merely make a spread angle of two
now far remote vessel; and some of those letters may be for the people of the
now menacing them with a pistol in each hand, just brought to him by the
now!"  And with that the pump clanged like fifty fire-engines; the men tossed
noways more significantly manifested than in his superlative sense and
number --leaving on deck some twenty or more, who thus far had remained
oar.  Lay back!  addressing his crew.  There! --there! --there again!  There
oars!  cried Starbuck.  Thou, Queequeg, stand up!  Nimbly springing up on
oarsman's hair, and hold on there like grim death.
obscure background (for few men's courage is proof against protracted
observed in him, and particularly his solicitude in having an extra coat of
occasion, I felt all the easier; a stone was rolled away from my heart.
occasion, and the captain, having no
occasionally put, and which are duly answered at the time.  Some two years
occasions --if so it had been that, by the process of hailing, he had obtained
ocean like our Atlantic, for example, some skippers think little of pumping
ocean.  The wind increased to a howl; the waves dashed their bucklers
odd sort of wayward mood I am speaking of, comes over a man only in some time
of Flask to that whale, as he called the fictitious monster which he
of Moby Dick.  To some the general interest in the White Whale was now wildly
of all her other perils, the Town-Ho still maintained her mast-heads, and
of all hopes of cash --aye, cash.  They may scorn cash now; but let some months
of all that.  Now, gentlemen, in square-sail brigs and three-masted ships,
of an audacious mariner as any.  And for Radney, though in his infancy he may
of ancient Dampier's old chums --I found a little matter set down so like that
of churches.  For by some curious fatality, as it is often noted of your
of command.  Moreover, when the four boats were lowered, the mate's got the
of common occurrence in this kind of life; considering that at the
of cruising.  Standing in iron hoops nailed to the mast, they swayed and
of each other's villanous likenesses.  But look at the godly, honest,
of extreme tribulation; it comes in the very midst of his earnestness, so
of his heart.  He was in Radney the chief mate's watch; and as if the
of his own touching all that matter.  Until Cabaco's published discovery, the
of humorists, whose jollity is sometimes so curiously ambiguous, as to put
of it with his pike, sought to prick out the object of his resentment.  But
of latitude by five degrees of longitude; perpendicularly through each of
of many other instances from persons whose veracity in the matter there is no
of nearly two years, often endangered by serpents, savages, tigers, poisonous
of seven of his former associates, and stung by the mocking voice that had
of the ages; so that for the millionth time we say amen with Solomon --Verily
of the boat will often go far to topple him, because length of foundation is
of the boat's bottom, the Lakeman had slackened the line, so as to drop
of the boat.  Suddenly Queequeg started to his feet, hollowing his hand to his
of the chase, for the sake of being near the scene of action and giving his
of the company.  "In the name of all us Limeese, I but desire to express to
of the frantic thing, of which, for the time, it was no longer an integral.
of the general perils of the grand fishery, yet they have nothing like a
of the hull and tow it home.  The fact is, boys, that sword-fish only began
of the two traitors, till they yelled no more, but lifelessly hung their
of their wonder; and so what with all this and Stubb's confident way of
of these moonlight nights, it was his wont to mount to the main-mast head,
of three hundred and sixty-five days and nights was before him; an interval
of unknown regions.  Meanwhile, the whale he had struck must also have been on
of unusual adventures as a sea-captain, this day resides in the village of
of which had had a death by a whale, some of them more than one, and three
of which was larger than the ship itself, lay almost at the surface of the
of yore; for long allured by the perfidious silences that before had attended
officer of the deck happen to forget his duty in that respect, the
oft seen from the palmy beach of Ombay?  Was it not so, O New Zealand Jack!
often before have noticed a similar sight, yet, to any monomaniac man, the
often happen.  Mr. Stubb, said I, turning to that worthy, who, buttoned up
often with blind rage, as with wilful, deliberate designs of destruction to
oftentimes pass on without so much as a single word of recognition, mutually
oil.  No: the reason was this: that from the fatal experiences of the
old man had ever before evinced.  But turning to the steersman, who thus far
on account of all hands gently subsiding to the bottom.  Nor in the solitary
on board instinctively desired a lowering.  Walking the deck with quick,
on board; at any rate, she will be sure to let her have some papers of a date
on the hatches and thus spoke to the officer: "Mr. Radney, I will not obey
on the intense countenance of the mate in the stern of the boat, they knew
one hundred and fifty leagues from the Main of America, our ship felt a
one or two other things, which to me seem important, as in printed form
one.  In sum, gentlemen, what the wildness of this canal life is, is
only tending to that; free will still free to ply her shuttle between given
only when a leaky vessel is in some very out of the way part of those waters,
operations; he made two several attacks upon the ship, at a short interval
opinion.  Here are his reflections some time after quitting the ship, during
opposite quarter --this deceitfulness of his could not now be in action; for
or even frustrate it.  it might be that a long interval would elapse ere the
or nothing all day.  To this, Radney replied with an oath, in a most
or starlight, as the case might be; disappearing again for one whole day, or
orders in person, yet for Captain Ahab to have a boat actually apportioned to
other at the ends of the earth --off lone Fanning's Island, or the far away
other boats had got fast; but hardly were they overheard, when with a
other circumstances, Steelkilt systematically built the plan of his revenge.
other side; --all these, with the cries of the headsmen and harpooneers, and
other, in the matter; and both of them could not be first, for the ladder
other; and consequently, have all sorts of dear domestic things to talk
others to show the number of days in which whales, sperm or right, have been
our fault; we didn't want it; I told him to take his hammer away; it was
our hootings, for a long time obstinately clung to the hemp, as though they
our own particular boat was chiefly to be
out for the Captain at midnight.  Thinking murder at hand, and smelling in
out of bodily eyes, when what seemed Ahab rushed from his room, was for the
over the seas, from hundreds of whalemen's look-outs perched as high in the
over you half suspended in air, so wildly and eagerly peering towards the
overbearing of Radney, the mate, a Vineyarder, and the bitterly provoked
own counsel (at least till all was over) concerning his own proper and
own instance they were put down in the ship's run for salvation.  Still, no
panting, and sat himself down on the windlass; his face fiery red, his eyes
paramount importance of his life to the success of the voyage, it is right for
part of the ship by the perilous seas that burstingly broke over its bows,
parted by
particular grounds, yet in general you cannot conclude that the herds which
particular preparative heedfulness in Ahab must only be with a view to the
particularly questioned him concerning this passage in Langsdorff.  He
party, and penetrated far into the interior, where he travelled for a period
past it had been plainly beheld from the three sullen mast-heads.  All was now
paused on their way.  The whales had irregularly settled bodily down into the
peculiarities as distinguished from other whales; for however peculiar in
peculiarities by killing him, and boiling him down into a peculiarly valuable
pequod to visit either of those spots at any subsequent corresponding season,
perceived the stacks of powder-casks heaped up in him and the slow-match
perch at the fore-mast-head, I had a good view of that sight so remarkable to
perfidious allies, who at once claimed the
performing now the office of life-preservers.  So, cutting the lashing of the
perhaps, have boarded her --judging by his subsequent conduct on similar
perhaps.  Though the gregarious sperm whales have their regular seasons for
period of more than fifty years.  A fact thus set down in substantial history
periodically relieved at them, those six-and-thirty men of his could easily
perishing, --an oar or a lance pole.
person as any fearless, unthinking creature on land or on sea that you can
phantoms that seemed fresh formed out of air.
philosophically drawled Stubb, who, with his unlighted short pipe,
place among the crew, though still as it were somehow distinct from them,
place to sit in, is pulled off to his visit all standing like a pine tree.
plank of her has been seen since.  After the severest exposure, part of the
planting his feet firmly against two opposite planks of the boat, the gigantic
platform.  it is used for catching turns with the whale line.  Its top is not
playing the devil with his estate, I can tell him.  But he's a simple old
plentiful than billiard-tables, and for ever open--and Corrupt as Lima.
pockets; but perhaps being generally very large, heavy hands, he carries them
point is this: The Sperm Whale is in some cases sufficiently powerful,
point, gentlemen, that enraged by the defection
pointed pressure of his ivory limb; and also the anxiety he evinced in
poles, and you cannot stand them up.  Then, again, it would never do in plain
port to heave down and repair.  I am not superstitious, but I consider the
posture in his boat, even when pitched about by the most riotously perverse
potency from the contrasting serenity of the weather, in which, beneath all
power and malice at times of the sperm whale.  In more than one instance, he
practically or reliably known to me as a whaleman; and from these citations,
precise species this sea-monster was, is not mentioned.  But as he destroyed
predicted interval in any one sign of the Zodiac.  There it was, too, that
premature hour of the Pequod's sailing had, perhaps, been correctly selected
prescribed to by both, chance by turns rules either, and has the last
prescriptive province of the boys, if boys there be aboard.  Besides, it was
present day, but that these marvels (like all marvels) are mere repetitions
previous got abroad among them, though indeed not credited then, this had in
prime redeeming qualities of your man of violence, that at times he has as
principle or soul in him; and in sleep, being for the time dissociated from
prior to my first learning the events which I am about rehearsing to you,
private revenge upon the man who had stung him in the ventricles
probabilities, and, as Ahab fondly thought, every possibility the next thing
probability would be that he and his shipmates would never again remember it,
proceed to put on lasting record.  For my humor's sake, I shall preserve the
profession of theirs has any peculiar glory about it.  It sometimes ends in
profession.  be all this as it may, his voice was now often heard hailing the
professions have their own little peculiarities of detail; so has the whale
profit hand in hand!  Aye, aye, I thought as much, soliloquized Stubb,
prolonged abode.  And where Ahab's chances of accomplishing
promises, turn to, I say!" "Look ye, now," cried the Lakeman, flinging out
property of three confederate white seamen of that ship, one of whom, it
proud feelings; but whereto does all that circumnavigation conduct?  Only
prudent Starbuck's boat; and finally considering in what a devil's chase I was
pull, and keep pulling; nothing more.  Crack all your backbones, and bite
pull; never mind the brimstone --devils are good fellows enough.  So, so;
pulled more apart; Starbuck giving chase to three whales running dead to
pulling for dear life, and yet pulling for the mere joke of the thing.
pumps clanged as before.  Just after dark that day, when one watch had retired
punches in the side bestowed by the unseen and unaccountable old joker.  That
purpose, Ahab in all his thoughts and actions ever had in view the ultimate
putting Flask's hand on his hearse-plumed head and bidding him spring as he
quarrel as the backwoods seaman, fresh from the latitudes of buck-horn
quiescent cash all at once mutinying in them, this same cash would soon
quietly, and asked him for some twine to mend his hammock.  It was given him
raised a pistol.  "Sink the ship?" cried Steelkilt.  "Aye, let her sink.  Not
raised the ship three feet at least out of the water.  The masts reeled, and
rammed home the loading with his thumb-end; but hardly had he ignited his
ranging ahead of the other boats; a circumstance bespeaking how potent a crew
rapidly two or three times, and then suddenly throwing down his rope, said,"I
rapscallions; ye are all asleep.  Stop snoring, ye sleepers, and pull.  Pull,
rather heavy weather, the ship still continued her cruisings, the mariners
rather oddish," said the Lakeman, holding it at arm's length before him;
reached port, desert her in a body.  But in order to insure the speediest end
reached the ears of Captain Ahab or his mates.  For that secret part of the
real phantoms, and asked of the sun and the moon why they were created and to
really valiant men even when aggrieved --this nameless phantom feeling,
recklessly standing upon the top of the loggerhead, a stout sort of post
recur.  One reason perhaps is, that not one in fifty of the actual disasters
reflections, until day again made its appearance.  In another place --p. 45,
related to Ahab personally.  Having impulsively, it is probable, and perhaps
relieved the Indian at the main-mast head.  The sailors at the fore and
renown; not only was he famous in life and now is immortal in forecastle
repeated; but on the fourth morning a confused wrangling, and then a
reporting even a porpoise.  This vigilance was not long without reward.
reserved, and your Yankee, he does not fancy that sort of thing in anybody
resolved into his own invisible self.  I was the attendant or page of
response.  The Lakeman now patrolled the barricade, all the while keeping
rest, but Steelkilt shouted up to him a terrific hint to stop his babbling
resting in concert: then, how much more natural that upon the illimitable Pine
retain it in that dread expansion for several consecutive minutes.  But I must
returned to the quarter-deck.  Twice every day for three days this was
revenge he had, and without being the avenger.  For by a mysterious fatality,
rig.  As for Men-of-War, when they chance to meet at sea, they first go
rigging were like the thick branches of trees furred over with hoar-frost.
rigging, and hailed the mortal crew.  There she blows!  Had the trump of
right and left; the whales seemed separating their wakes.  The boats were
righted, and was dashed aside by the swell, while Radney was tossed over
rimmed varieties of races and of climes.  They contain round archipelagoes of
ringleader.
romantic isles, even as the Polynesian waters do; in large part, are shored
rooted in the keel, and rising some two feet above the level of the stern
round in the blocks; with a wallow, the three boats dropped into the sea;
round the windlass, steadily followed by the mate with his menacing hammer,
round the world!  Round the world!  There is much in that sound to inspire
round upon us, and rend us at last in the remotest and most savage seas.
row-locks.  Soon we were running through a suffusing wide veil of mist;
running up, besieged the cabin door, saying they durst not consort with the
rural boys and young men born along its line, the probationary life of the
sail for some other harbor.  The ship's company being reduced to but a
sail westward from the eaves of this good Golden Inn.  She was somewhere to
sail, stood away for the nearest harbor among the islands, there to have
sail, the ivory Pequod had slowly swept across four several cruising-grounds;
sailors had little foreseen it, though to be sure when, after being a little
sailors, but likewise with all the peculiar congenialities arising from a
same time little King-Post was full of a large and tall ambition, so that
same undeviating and reliable uniformity.  And thereby whalemen distinguish
savage craft bore down on him; and soon the voice of Steelkilt hailed him to
saved the would-be murderer from the bloody deed he had planned.  Yet complete
saw the monster sailing off with the utmost gravity and solemnity.  Captain
saw the whales struck; and, upon the second attack, saw the two irons with
say, and burst all your livers and lungs!  But what it was that inscrutable
saying that sweeping the deck was not his business, and he would not do it.
scene at the rigging, he insisted, against the express counsel of the captain,
scene.  Such was the state of his mouth, that he could hardly speak; but
sceptical touching the amazing strength ascribed to them by the professional
scoundrel, and smoke him along to the quarter-deck.  At intervals, he ran
scuffling was heard, as the customary summons was delivered; and suddenly
sea like three samphire baskets over high cliffs.  Outside of the bulwarks
sea, the whalers have most reason to be sociable --and they are so.  Whereas,
seas far remote from his periodical feeding-grounds, should turn up his
seas.  "I see!  I see!  " impetuously exclaimed Don Pedro, spilling his
season; though there are peculiar and unquestionable instances where the
secret confidential agents on the water of the devil, their lord, whose
secured there; the whale towing her great hull through the water, as a
seek can be established upon testimony entirely independent of my own.  That
seemed scarcely entitled to a moment's thought; the dismal looking wreck,
seemed shuddering fins, and ranged themselves fore and aft with the
seemed their forerunning couriers and detached flying outriders.  All four
seemed, were flitting on the other side of the deck, and, with a noiseless
seems but a part of the general
seems, communicated it to Tashtego with Romish injunctions of secresy, but
seems, in a boat.  And now his bandaged cry was, to beach him on the whale's
seen no more till it came up weltering astern.  Again we swam for it, were
seen pulling the harpooneer oar, he had thrown aside his black jacket, and
seen.
seethings, made what seemed a silvery silence, not a solitude: on such a
self-same whale; and that whale, Moby Dick.  For a time, there reigned, too, a
set like a flint from Stubb's.  What think ye of those yellow boys, sir!
setting the sail of his best whale-boat, steered straight before the wind for
several of her company; especially by radney the mate.  He commanded the
several of the whales were wounded; when, suddenly, a very large whale
shadows of Fate, and by those wild cries announcing their coming.  There she
shadows of night; no sign of the ship could be seen.  The rising sea forbade
shaking myself in my jacket to fling off the water; Queequeg, my fine
she blows right ahead, boys! -- lay back!  Never heed yonder yellow boys,
sheathing in the bottom of the boat, as if to make it better withstand the
sheep's ear!  And here, his mad mind would run on in a breathless race; till
ship, which was in full sail, was almost upon him, so that it was
ship.  at sunrise the captain went forward, and knocking on the deck,
ships themselves often pick up such queer castaway creatures found tossing
ships, as well as for other reasons, he must have been a whale; and I am
shirt, caught in the teeth that had destroyed him.  All four boats gave chase
shook the back-stay.  Hardly had he done so, when he was surrounded by the
shouted out, "There she rolls!  there she rolls!"  Jesu, what a whale!  It
shovel was almost as plainly meant to sting and insult Steelkilt, as though
shrewdness in foreseeing that, for the present, the hunt should in some way
shudder, sleeping in this gale, still thou steadfastly eyest thy purpose.
side-lunging strides, Ahab commanded the t'gallant sails and royals to be set,
sideways by settling down on his stretched legs; but a sudden, violent pitch
sight of the world's riveted eyes, it would never do, I say, for this
sign from Ahab, Starbuck was now pulling obliquely across Stubb's bow; and
sign of mutiny reappeared among the rest.  On the contrary, it seemed, that
sign over to you my Martha's Vineyard plantation, boys; including wife and
silent night a silvery jet was seen far in advance of the white bubbles at
silently burning along towards them; as he instinctively saw all this, that
silver chips, the foam-flakes flew over her bulwarks; then all this desolate
since the blow, he had lain in his berth; but that morning, hearing the
sir, if ye please!  Halloa!  returned Starbuck, turning round not a single
six of the foremast-men deliberately deserted among the palms; eventually, as
sixty degrees of latitude arrive in the equatorial Pacific in time to cruise
skeleton of a stranded walrus.  All down her sides, this spectral appearance
slide of the scuttle, planted their group of hands upon it, and loudly
sloop-of-war of the first class, happened to be dining with a party of
snorting charger; and a brain, and a heart, and a soul in him, gentlemen,
snow-white chapels, whose spires stand almost like milestones, flows one
snow-white hump, could not but be unmistakable.  And have I not tallied the
so far as to have some sort of a half-hinted influence; Heaven knows, but
so smite his stout sloop-of-war as to cause her to leak so much as a
so strictly according with the wildness of his ruling passion, yet were by
so that the closed eyes were pointed towards the needle of the tell-tale that
soaked through just like me, he gave me to understand that such things did
solace the languishing interval with his pipe.  He withdrew it from his
some days before had been placidly swimming by our side, darted away with what
some days we had very little wind; it was not till the nineteenth that a
some merchant ships crossing each other's wake in the mid-Atlantic, will
some one or two of his men to snatch a fearful look over the shoulder.  But
some ordinary, prudential, circumstantial influences were brought to bear upon
some really landless latitude, that her captain begins to feel a little
some small measure prepared them for the event.  It took off the extreme edge
some time or other, swims before all human hearts; while chasing such over
somehow fell from his hand into the sea; and the wind now rising amain, he
something down the crack, closed it, and turned the key upon them --ten in
sometimes cushioned seat there, and often steers himself with a pretty little
somewhat prematurely revealed the prime but private purpose of the Pequod's
soothingly sighed Stubb to his crew, some of whom still showed signs of
sort of genial, desperado philosophy; and with it I now regarded this whole
sort of shyness between them; for your Englishman is rather
soul, -- Rad, and a beauty too.  Boys, they say the rest of his property is
sound as of fifty elephants stirring in their litter.  Meanwhile the boat was
spear in hand, Radney sprang to the bow.  He was always a furious man, it
specimen of his sermonizings that he ever flew into downright passions with
sperm whale, once struck, is allowed time to rally, he then acts, not so
sperm whales, and that the more monsters he slew by so much the more he
sperm whales.  So that though Moby Dick had in a former year been seen, for
spice to the fun, that no oarsman could hear such queer invocations without
spite of their amazement the men sprang over the rail; the sheaves whirled
sports; his slouched and gaily-ribboned hat betoken his grand features.  A
sprained with ye!" he cried, at last; "but there is still rope enough left
spray, and, for an instant, was dimly seen through that veil, wildly seeking
stabbing him in the eye with the unflinching poniard of his glance,
stand in a sort of corporeal relation.  Starbuck's body and Starbuck's coerced
stand on.  but what is a gam?  you might wear out your index-finger running
starboard quarter.  The figure that now stood by its bows was tall and swart,
stare at?  Those chaps in yonder boat?  Tut!  They are only five more hands
staring mad: See!  see that white water!  And so shouting, he pulled his hat
start; and none howled more fiercely with delight than did Steelkilt, as he
statement of the entire case.  Considering, therefore, that squalls and
stating that a great earthquake, somewhere about that time, did actually do
steamer, and the beech canoe; they are swept by Borean and dismasting blasts
steel-bits.  Start her --start her, my silver-spoons!  Start her,
steelkilt, clenching his right hand behind him and creepingly drawing it back,
steering oar as in a thousand boat lowerings ere the White Whale had torn him.
stern like a crazed colt from the prairie.  Look at that chap now,
steward.  "Come out of that, ye cut-throats!"  Steelkilt leaped on the
stiff an arm to back a poor stranger in a strait, as to plunder a wealthy
still booming through the mist, the waves curling and hissing around us like
still further aft the sheet of his sail; there is time to kill a fish yet
still he knew that for all this the chief mate, in his soul, abhorred his
still remained at their duty toiling hard at the pumps, whose clinking and
stood in a line along the bulwarks in the waist; and the better to guard
stopped on the way by a portly sperm whale, that begged a few moments'
stories after death, but he was admitted into all the rights, privileges,
storms.  But even had this not been the case, he would not after all,
story was unknown to the captain of the Town-Ho himself.  It was the private
straddling captain to be seen steadying himself the slightest particle by
straightened it a little there; all these things, I say, had awakened much
strained at his oar.  After a stiff pull, their harpooneer got fast, and,
strange forbearance and unwillingness to stir up the deeper passionateness in
stranger and stronger emotions than that man does, who for the first time
stranger's flanks.  Though in the course of his continual voyagings Ahab must
strangers at such a critical instant as the lowering of the boats from the
street, lest if they pursued the acquaintance further, they might receive a
strength, which periodically started the boat along the water like a
stretched as a corpse, with his forehead crushed in.  But, gentlemen, a fool
stretched out like a wand, and at brief sudden intervals he continued his
strictest peacefulness, obey all orders to the last, and, when the ship
stroke of his dead limb sounded like a coffin-tap.  On life and death this old
stroke to sweep the stakes!  Hurrah for the gold cup of sperm oil, my heroes!
strong emotion mankind disdain all base considerations; but such times are
strongly inclined to think a sperm whale.  And I will tell you why.  For a
strongly, or weakly, as the case might be; and by this difference in the
struck as against a sunken ledge, and keeling over, spilled out the standing
style in which I once narrated it at Lima, to a lounging circle of my Spanish
substance called brit is to be found, the aliment of the right whale.  But I
substantiates every word.
substituting present Lima for distant Venice in your corrupt comparison.  Oh!
subtilty, and by some honest white mariners supposed to be the paid spies and
such a chart is in course of completion; and portions of it are presented in
such a marvellous cadence as from Tashtego the Indian's.  As he stood hovering
such a thwack, that with all his pumps going he made straight for the nearest
such generous conceits never entered the heads of the owners of the Pequod.
sudden maelstrom; seized the swimmer between his jaws; and rearing high up
suddenness of the shock made the guns leap in their carriages, and several of
summary thump for their presumption.  But not only did each of these famous
summoned all hands; and separating those who had rebelled from those who had
summoned the prisoners to work; but with a yell they refused.  Water was
superior altitude.  Hence, I conclude, that in boasting himself to be high
superior in general pride of manhood, straightway against that man he
superlatively critical instant of going on to the whale I must resign my life
superstitious surmisings; though the affair still left abundant room for all
supplied with five extra men, as that same boat's crew, he well knew that
surging, hollow roar they made, as they rolled along the eight gunwales, like
surrender, he would let them go with a reprimand, which he accordingly
surrender; and thereby secure whatever small chance of pardon such conduct
suspected.  They were hidden down there.  The White Whale's at the bottom of
swam to the boat; and climbing the gunwale, stood face to face with the
swart visage and bold swagger are not unshunned in cities.  Once a vagabond on
sweeping a ship's deck at sea is a piece of household work which in all times
swerved from its ultimate course --its every alternating vibration, indeed,
swiftly slid aft, and then erecting himself volunteered his lofty shoulders
swung from a beam in the ceiling.  Terrible old man!  thought Starbuck with a
swung over a fathomless sea;
taken no part in the mutiny, he told the former that he had a good mind to
technical phrase --the Season-on-the-Line.  For there and then, for several
technically called the captain's, on account of its hanging from the
terrible shock, which put our men in such consternation that they could
terror to the smiling innocence of the villages through which he floats; his
terror; rather pleasure.  for though it was a most unwonted hour, yet so
than kill ye, and be hung for such a shabby rascal, we won't lift a hand
than that; the man who darted them happening, in the interval, to go in a
thank him heartily; would fain be not ungrateful; but it is often one of the
that corporeally exasperated state, I know not; but so it happened.
that den.  but the scheme met with no opposition on the part of the other two;
that every individual moment, indeed, then comprises a peril; under these
that going plump on a flying whale with your sail set in a foggy squall is the
that had each lost a boat's crew.  For God's sake, be economical with your
that imbecile candle in the heart of that almighty forlornness.  There, then,
that night, you would have thought that in him also two different things were
that night.  Every sailor swore he saw it once, but not a second time.  This
that off the Azores; off the Cape de Verdes; on the Plate (so called),
that path, migrating whales may with great confidence be looked for.  And
that poor fellow there, who this moment perhaps caught by the whale-line off
that respect any chance whale may be, they soon put an end to his
that storm.  Meanwhile the driving scud, rack, and mist, grew darker with the
that the imminent instant had come; they heard, too, an enormous wallowing
that they ever encamp around the halls of justice, so sinners, gentlemen,
that those seas are not, and perhaps never can be, in the present
that we left behind secure, were all the time before us.  Were this world an
that what just before might have seemed to him a thing most momentous, now
that whenever and wherever descried; at however remote times, or in however
the Cape winds began howling around us, and we rose and fell upon the long,
the Captain and his posse leaped the barricade, and rapidly drawing over the
the Pequod had sailed from Nantucket at the very beginning of the
the Pequod were evincing their observance of this ominous incident at the
the Pequod who came to the full knowledge of it, and by such a strange
the White Whale might have possibly extended itself in some degree to all
the air came so nigh to each other that we might almost have leaped from the
the backstays leading far aloft to where two of his comrades were standing
the base of a cataract; and then the vast hull rolled over it, and it was
the beginning.  For me, I silently recalled the mysterious shadows I had seen
the blast, and gored the dark waves in her madness, till, like showers of
the bow.  Lit up by the moon, it looked celestial; seemed some plumed and
the bowels of despair; it was then that Steelkilt proposed to the two
the breeze.  Now this Radney, I suppose, was as little of a coward, and as
the buffalo; I believe I have broken a finger here against his cursed jaw;
the bulkhead below.  But the hours of darkness passed in peace; the men who
the characterizing mind, which at other times employed it for its outer
the cleat, and with the carpenter's chisel gouged out a little here and
the coast of New Guinea, is being carried down to the bottom of the sea by
the command.  Captain Ahab?-- said Starbuck.  Spread yourselves, cried Ahab;
the customary sweepers; who, not being billeted at the pumps, had done little
the dark for the blood, he and all his armed mates and harpooneers rushed for
the deck he would seek to recover his strength.  Ah, God!  what trances of
the deck, concluding that we had struck upon some rock; instead of this we
the devious zig-zag world-circle of the Pequod's circumnavigating wake.  But
the erected crests of enraged serpents.  That's his hump.  There, there,
the exact minute to Ahab.  The ship was now kept away from the wind, and she
the first unknown phantom in the other world; --neither of these can feel
the following night Tashtego rambled in his sleep, and revealed so much of it
the fore-ordaining soul of Steelkilt, the mate was already stark and
the gaunt pines stand like serried lines of kings in Gothic genealogies;
the grave always ready dug to the seaman's hand --that fatal hour was then to
the history of the plagues of Egypt.  But fortunately the special point I here
the hollows of so many sails, made the buoyant, hovering deck to feel like
the holy-of-holies of great forests; on Roman arches over Indian rivers;
the horizontal piece in the boat's bow for bracing the knee against in
the immense projecting steering oar hitting him now and then in the small of
the iron, escaped.  Though completely swamped, the boat was nearly unharmed.
the issue of the gale.  Then Captain and crew become practical fatalists.
the job; he's come back again with a gang of ship-carpenters, saw-fish, and
the leak not being then considered at all dangerous, though, indeed, they
the life of them, cannot well avoid a mutual salutation; and stopping for a
the live coals down the chimney of a flaming furnace as hail those boats in
the loggerhead itself, under such circumstances.  But the sight of little
the men were shaken out of their hammocks.  Captain Davis, who lay with his
the mere sight of such a yawning commander, by sheer force of contrast,
the morning of the second day, when they were washing down the decks, that
the most marvellous event in this book corroborated by plain facts of the
the mutineers bolted up into the air from the desperate arms below that sought
the northward of the Line.  One morning upon handling the pumps, according to
the ocean prevailed; still in silence the men swung in the bowlines; still
the open sea, on our way to Ochotsh.  The weather was very clear and fine,
the pallid bulwarks, was in the act of putting his trumpet to his mouth, it
the pump at last, with the rest of his band, the Lakeman went forward all
the pumps ran across the deck, and poured itself out in steady spouts at the
the pursuit of whales is always under great and extraordinary difficulties;
the respective marks cut in them, afterwards taken from the dead fish.  In the
the rippling clear water; clear as any mountain spring, gentlemen --that
the sailors, goat-like, leaped down the rolling ship's side into the tossed
the sails fell altogether, while we who were below all sprang instantly upon
the seamen to adopt this sort of passiveness in their conduct, he kept his
the seamen were lazily lounging about the decks, or vacantly gazing over
the secret among themselves so that it never transpired abaft the Pequod's
the ship, by knocking off at a time like this?  Turn to!" and he once more
the ship.  dashing his forehead against her hull, he so stove her in, that
the shock to an earthquake, and seems to substantiate the imputation by
the shuddering gasps of the oarsmen, with the wondrous sight of the ivory
the side and step down into the cabin to chat with the captain, and it would
the sounding leviathan --do you suppose that that poor fellow's name will
the state of New York; through numerous populous cities and most thriving
the storm.  The sound came nearer and nearer; the thick mists were dimly
the stroke.  Steelkilt here hissed out something, inaudible to all but the
the stronger men in the Town-Ho that had been divided into gangs, taking
the suspended craft seemed a coral boat grown up to us from the bottom of the
the swart Fedallah and his crew, the inmates of the other boats obeyed not
the triangular raised box in the bow, the savage stood erect there, and with
the uproar, and sought to drag their man out of it towards the forecastle.
the waves rolled by like scrolls of silver; and, by their soft, suffusing
the whale-ship's mast-heads, when circumspectly gliding along this magic
the whaleboats for service; when some time after this Ahab was now and then
thee; and he whose intense thinking thus makes him a Prometheus; a vulture
their eager crews with one hand clung to the rail, while one foot was
their fish and returned to the ship in good time.  The ship had given us up,
their hats off to it, and ere long that peculiar gasping of the lungs was
their holy sepulchre, without committing burglaries, picking pockets, and
their last wills and testaments, but there are no people in the world more
their mast-heads.  They were both Canallers.  "Canallers!" cried Don Pedro,
their one final and romantic object --that final and romantic object, too many
their regular soundings, not a temporary dive from mere fright; and if that
their whole way across it; though of a still, sleepy night, should the
them in so heavy a vessel.  After taking counsel with his officers, he
them to the last, they in some way, by some subtle chemistry of villany,
then lowered down to them, and a couple of handfuls of biscuit were tossed
then, you properly put these statements together, and reason upon them a bit,
there did about Rinaldo Rinaldini, insomuch that most fishermen were
there for ballast.  Nevertheless there have occurred instances, well
there is nothing new under the sun.  In the sixth Christian century lived
there was no reason to suppose that the fish seen by Tashtego had been in any
there you are now; that's the stroke for a thousand pounds; that's the
there.  Therefore, he must wait for the next ensuing season.  Yet the
there.  This boat had always been deemed one of the spare boats, though
there?" said a shipmate.  "What do you think?  what does it look like?"
these events, as if verily mapped out before the world itself was charted.
these miscreants must come out.  Upon hearing the frantic project of their
these ships should not only interchange hails, but come into still closer,
these, and death itself, seem to him only sly, good-natured hits, and jolly
they are!  To a landsman, no whale, nor any sign of a herring, would have
they exchange visits by boats' crews: the two captains remaining, for the
they give chase to Moby Dick, they must also have food for their more common,
they hung till morning.  "Damn ye," cried the Captain, pacing to and fro
they say at times assumed the semblance of a snow-white cross against the sky?
they were in such a weakened condition that the captain durst not put off with
thimbleful.  Very good; but there is more coming.  Some weeks after, the
things invested the Pequod, were there wanting some of the seamen who swore
things, a place for his habitual gregarious resort.  But further
things, and I am not.  Will you tell me whether it is an unalterable law in
thirteenth of May our ship was ready to sail, and the next day we were out in
this catastrophe I have never chanced to encounter, though from the whale
this effeminacy is dashed.  The brigandish guise which the Canaller so proudly
this fish from other tribes of his genus.  There go flukes!  was now the cry
this fishery, Mr. Flask, for an oarsman to break his own back pulling himself
this loggerhead stand-point of his did by no means satisfy King-Post.  I
this round globe, they either lead us on in barren mazes or midway leave us
this time three years, if I am not at home, tell them to address them to-----
this was against all rule; for the oarsmen must put out their eyes, and ram
thither, he says, about four o'clock in the morning, when we were about
those same woods harboring wild Afric beasts of prey, and silken creatures
those so called judgments of God which at times are said to overtake some men.
those waters for awhile, as the sun, in its annual round, loiters for a
thou terror of all cruisers that crossed their wakes in the vicinity of the
though assuming for the time the almost continual command of the drenched and
thought Ahab, is sordidness.  Granting that the White Whale fully incites the
thought I might as well go below and make a rough draft of my will.
thought not.  Ahab well knew that although his friends at home would think
thoughts through the day, carried them on amid a clashing of phrensies, and
threads of the warp subject to but one single, ever returning, unchanging
threads; and chance, though restrained in its play within the right lines of
threat, whatever that might have been.  The three men were then cut down,
three instances, then, which I personally know the truth of; but I have heard
three junior mates and the four harpooneers, who all crowded him to the deck.
three mast-heads and admonishing them to keep a bright look-out, and not omit
three-year instance, it so fell out that I was in the boat both times, first
through each of which districts are three lines; one to show the number of
through numberless perils to the very point whence we started, where those
through such a string of silly bowings and scrapings, such a ducking of
through sun and shade; by happy hearts or broken; through all the wide
through these latter waters that one serene and moonlight night, when all
thunderings of naval victories; at intervals, they yield their beaches to
thus completely wedged before and behind, and can only expand himself
thus marked was not altogether and originally owing to his bodily
tides were a conscience; and the great
tie he soon evinced himself to be linked with Ahab's peculiar fortunes; nay,
time but a vacated thing, a formless somnambulistic being, a ray of living
time his ship was utterly lost, and forthwith forswearing the sea, he has
time of the tragedy; I have read his plain and faithful narrative; I have
time or place were attained, when all possibilities would become
time, on board of one ship, and the two chief mates on the other.  There is
time, the Town-Ho reached her port --a savage, solitary place --where no
times were not content to traverse two thousand miles of land to fight for
to John Ferdinando, as he calls the modern Juan Fernandes.  In our way
to a certainty.  That particular set time and place were conjoined in the one
to capture so famous and precious a fish; while the dogged crew eyed askance,
to cover a large expanse of water.  but with all their eyes again riveted upon
to drive yawingly to some horizontal goal.  And had you watched Ahab's face
to evince all his well known passionate interest in the general pursuit of his
to his one supreme purpose; that purpose, by its own sheer inveteracy of
to involve with the whale a certain wondrous, inverted visitation of one of
to mark how the
to remove himself from the eye of Moby Dick.  But the whale rushed round in a
to restrain them.  Only three were left.  "Better turn to, now?" said the
to scorn; assuring him that if the pistol so much as clicked in the lock, he
to the Pacific, among many others we spoke thirty different ships, every one
to the three men in the rigging --"for you, I mean to mince ye up for the
to the voyage, they all agreed to another thing --namely, not to sing out for
together; the whole squall roared, forked, and crackled around us like a
tools; and of all tools used in the shadow of the moon, men are most apt to
topmost back.  Nothing loath, his bowsman hauled him up and up, through a
torments does that man endure who is consumed with one unachieved revengeful
tornado brow, and eyes of red murder, and foam-glued lips, Ahab leaped after
tortoise with mystic hieroglyphics upon the back!  In plain prose, here are
tossed helter-skelter into the white curdling cream of the squall.  Squall,
trading ship on a voyage to Africa, went ashore there, joined a discovery
traits; and this Lakeman, a mariner, who though a sort of devil indeed,
tranquillize his unquiet heart as to postpone all intervening quest.  Now,
transformed into those fowls and these fish, seemed condemned to swim on
travellers than in any other part.  It was not very long after speaking the
treacherously beckoning us on and on, in order that the monster might turn
treated, this Steelkilt had long been retained harmless and docile.  At all
triangularly platformed level with the gunwale, Starbuck himself was seen
troubled seas that are there; when the ivory-tusked Pequod sharply bowed to
trowsers of the same dark stuff.  But strangely crowning his ebonness was a
true Ashantee, gentlemen; there howl your pagans; where you ever find them,
try-pots;" and, seizing a rope, he applied it with all his might to the backs
tumult on the deck, he had crept out, and thus far had watched the whole
turns at the pumps; and being the most athletic seaman of them all,
twisting round his head, said in a sort of hiss, "What I say is this --and
two days, or three; and somehow seeming at every distinct repetition to be
two legs man is but a hobbling wight in all times of danger; considering that
ultimate chase of Moby Dick; for he had already revealed his intention to
unaccountable odds and ends of strange nations come up from the unknown nooks
unbidden and unfathered birth.  Therefore, the tormented spirit that glared
uncommon elevation, indeed; but only at the gallows.  And besides, when a
understand this; and all this and doubtless much more, the Lakeman fully
understood, and moreover to take away any incredulity which a profound
uneasiness.  Why don't you break your backbones, my boys?  What is it you
unerring binnacle compasses.  He did not say much to his crew, though, nor
unexaggerating historian, except in some one or two particulars, not at all
unostentatious, hospitable, sociable, free-and-easy whaler!  What does the
unstaked, watery locality, southerly from St.  Helena.  It was while gliding
unsuppressable symptoms of some latent weakness, or fright at his own resolve,
unusual for ships to keep clanging at their pump-handles in full chorus even
unusual hours; his turban and the moon, companions in one sky.  But when,
up and down the columns of dictionaries, and never find the word.  Dr.
up with his lance in the prow, and haul in or slacken the line, at the word
upon being the first man on deck, when the time to make the rush should come.
upon my soul, I had no more idea of being facetious than Moses, when he wrote
upon the same piece of treachery, namely: to be foremost in breaking out,
upon the sea.  The jets of vapor no longer blended, but tilted everywhere to
upper sails to be well hoisted, sheeted home anew, and every way expanded to
us, we found ourselves launched into this tormented sea, where guilty beings
us, we won't do a hand's turn." "Down into the forecastle then, down with
us; while thick in our rear flew the inscrutable sea-ravens.  And every
usurpation, and the possible consequences of such a suppressed impression
utterly destroy, and sink a large ship; and what is more, the Sperm Whale has
vacancy between the boat and the ship, and down between this was the sea.
vacuity of life went away, but gave place to sights more dismal than before.
vehicle or agent, it spontaneously sought escape from the scorching contiguity
vengeance of Steelkilt, a Lakeman and desperado from Buffalo.  "Lakeman!
veriest trifles capriciously carry meanings.  Swim away from me, do ye?
very moment is in his impetuousness upon the point of scuttling the craft
very much, my fine fellow; only I wish you fifty feet taller.  Whereupon
vessels, were finally gone in quest of, systematically hunted out, chased and
vibration, and that vibration merely enough to admit of the crosswise
view, let me learnedly define it.  Gam.  Noun --A social meeting of two (or more)
vigilance over their dangerous allies was this small
villages; through long, dismal, uninhabited swamps, and affluent, cultivated
visible and invisible, never mind how knobby; as an ostrich of potent
visible world resting on him from the sides of the two ships, this standing
voice was heard announcing that silvery, moon-lit jet, every reclining
voyage of the Pequod, and the great White Whale its object.  Queequeg, said
voyage, Ahab was now entirely conscious that, in so doing, he had indirectly
voyage; observe all customary usages; and not only that, but force himself
warrant me in concluding that it was anything but chance which directed his
warring.  While his one live leg made lively echoes along the deck, every
was Moby Dick.  "Moby Dick!" cried Don Sebastian; "St.  Dominic!  Sir sailor,
was in the very act of striking, when another hiss stayed his uplifted arm.
was pulling him.  those tiger yellow creatures of his seemed all steel and
was the half-hissed reply.  Lower away then; d'ye hear?  shouting across the
was traced with long channels of reddened rust, while all her spars and her
washing their faces.  But in all vessels this broom business is the
watches, his officers and men must have some nearer things to think of than
water, and thin scattered puffs of vapor hovering over it, and suffusingly
water, but was not perceived by any one on board till the moment when the
water, carelessly and unthinkingly drove home every yarn: I say so strange a
water-proof match keg, after many failures Starbuck contrived to ignite the
waves were storied with his deeds; there also was that tragic spot where the
waves, that almost seemed threatening to cut it in two; the sudden profound
way alarmed, or indeed knew at all of our vicinity.  One of the men selected
weaving away at the Fates.  There lay the fixed
well nigh the whole of this passage being attended by very prosperous breezes,
well-nigh as large and stout as any that ever sailed out of your old Callao to
went gently rolling before it.  Tashtego reporting that the whales had gone
were but the plainest tokens of its intensity.  For, at such times, crazy
were hurrying to execute the order,
were locked up in my chest.  I looked round me tranquilly and contentedly,
were of that vivid, tiger-yellow complexion peculiar to some of the aboriginal
were on the closer terms with me; and hence the interluding questions they
were seized up into the mizen rigging, like three quarters of meat, and there
were the case, Stubb, as his wont in such cases, it seems, was resolved to
were thrust out; the mainyard was backed, and the three boats swung over the
whale again came together, and the one vanquished the other.  I say I,
whale could, by the same route, pass out of the Mediterranean into the
whale face foremost.  Ha, ha!  the whale would give them squint for squint,
whale, Ahab would mutter to himself, as after poring over his charts till
whale, and harpoon had all blended together; and the whale, merely grazed by
whale-boat never admits of any such effeminacy; and therefore as in gamming a
whale-bone; like five trip-hammers they rose and fell with regular strokes of
whale.  The dancing white water made by the chase was now becoming more and
whaler do when she meets another whaler in any sort of decent weather?  She
whales enjoy great individual celebrity --nay, you may call it an ocean-wide
whales, in case any should be discovered.  For, spite of her leak, and spite
whaling captains, on board a Nantucket ship in the harbor of Oahu, Sandwich
what end; when though, according to genesis, the angels indeed consorted
what is called a sword-mat, for an additional lashing to our boat.  So still
what may be called the secret part of the tragedy about to be narrated, never
what, men, old Rad's investment must go for it!  he had best cut away his part
whatever way-side, antecedent, extra prospects were his, ere a particular set
whelmed.
when for a minute or so the two boats were pretty near to each other, Stubb
when the boats diverged, as soon as I clapt eye on 'em, I thought so.  Aye,
when the two irons, both marked by the same private cypher, have been taken
whence that voice dropped like a wing.  High aloft in the cross-trees was that
where the lines attached to
whether they joined him or not.  That was the last night he should spend in
which districts are twelve columns for the twelve months; and horizontally
which had made Steelkilt Charlemagne, had he been born son to Charlemagne's
which he had been betrayed.  At his leisure, he employed the interval in
which he sailed from home.  In that up and down manly book of old-fashioned
which we had just before entered, and in which we had struck three of his
which, instead of impatiently enduring ashore, he would spend in a
while out of port, all hands had concluded the customary business of fitting
while, with a dexterous, off-handed daring, unknown in any other vocation,
whirled them round and round in his blazing brain, till the very throbbing of
white fire upon the prairie, in which, unconsumed, we were burning; immortal
white-turbaned old man at their head, All ready there, Fedallah?  Ready,
who so long did'st lurk in the Oriental straits of that name, whose spout was
wholly by Polynesians.  In the short gam that ensued she gave us strong news
whose exported furs give robes to Tartar Emperors; they mirror the paved
wicked is he.  Like Mark Antony, for days and days along his green-turfed,
widest expanses of water between those grounds he could, by his art, so place
wild barbarians, whose red painted faces flash from out their peltry wigwams;
will hold true concerning whaling vessels crossing each other's track on the
will were Ahab's, so long as Ahab kept his magnet at Starbuck's brain;
will ye?  pull, can't ye?  pull, won't ye?  Why in the name of gudgeons and
will, forced itself against gods and devils into a kind of self-assumed,
wind.  The strange, upheaving, lifting tendency of the taffrail breeze filling
windlass; when, resolved at last no longer to retreat, bethinking him that
windward, while an occasional squall of sleet or snow would all but congeal
with glaring eyes Ahab would burst from his state room, as though escaping
with him, plunged headlong again, and went down.  Meantime, at the first tap
with his own frantic stampings; considering that the particular disaster to
with one white tooth evilly protruding from its steel-like lips.  A rumpled
with several more examples, one way or another known to me, of the great
with the daughters of men, the devils also, add the uncanonical Rabbins,
without speaking he remained doggedly rooted to his seat, till at last the
without the occurrence of the least fatality, had it not been for the brutal
without uttering a single sound; when, after all this silence, his unearthly
won't be flogged." "Turn to!" roared the Captain.  Steelkilt glanced round
won't do it --let him go--cut him down: d'ye hear?"  But as the junior mates
wonderful old man!  I don't think it so strange, after all, on that
wonders of the world, that without some hints touching the plain facts,
wondrous habitude of unconscious skill the whaleman will maintain an erect
wordless ahab stood up to the blast.  Even when wearied nature seemed
words, but the tone conveyed more of deep helpless sadness than the insane
working at the pumps at wide and easy intervals; but no good luck came; more
world!  Tell them to address all future letters to the Pacific ocean!  and
would at times be descried.  During all this blackness of the elements, Ahab,
would be hard to say, seeing that the Yankees in one day, collectively, kill
would bury him in bubbles and foam.  "What do you want of me?  cried the
would but admit one man at a time.  And here, gentlemen, the foul play of
would come round at two o'clock, in the morning of the third day from that in
would have turned from in disgust.  I will not strip these men, thought Ahab,
would murder him.  But, gentlemen, the fool had been branded for the slaughter
wrest from him the command.  From even the barely hinted imputation of
wrinkled brow off the Persian Gulf, or in the Bengal Bay, or China Seas, or
ye, Cabaco?  They are stowaways, Mr. Flask.  Pull, pull, my fine
ye, I'll keep ye there till ye're sick of it.  Down ye go." "Shall we?"
ye, and let's have a taste.  By the Lord, it's worth bottling!  I tell ye
yet that hair-turbaned Fedallah remained a muffled mystery to the last.
you dogs!  So, so, so, then; --softly, softly!  That's it -- that's it!  long
you know.  I don't know that, my little man; I never yet saw him kneel.
you, sir sailor, that we have by no means overlooked your delicacy in not
you.  Take that hammer away, or look to yourself."  But the predestinated mate
your knives in two -- that's all.  Take it easy --why don't ye take it easy, I
zone.  The sum is, that at particular seasons within that breadth and along
