



















































     A day or two passed, and there was great
     All about it, eh --sure you do? --all?  Pretty sure.  With finger pointed
     As Queequeg's Ramadan, or Fasting and
     As we were walking down the end of the wharf
     Because it's dangerous, says she.  Ever since young Stiggs coming from that
     Come hither to me --hither, hither, said Peleg, with a significance in his
     Elijah.  Elijah!  thought I, and we walked away, both commenting, after
     Every once and a while Peleg came hobbling out of his whalebone den, roaring
     Fiery pit!  fiery pit!  ye insult me, man; past all natural bearing, ye
     First Congregational Church, cried Bildad, what!  that worships in Deacon
     I don't know anything about Deacon Deuteronomy or his meeeting, said I,
     I endeavored to prevail upon Queequeg to take a chair; but in vain.  There
     I had heard something of both Captain Peleg and his unaccountable old crony
     In bed we concocted our plans for the morrow.
     It was nearly six o'clock, but only grey
     Life was what Captain Ahab and I was thinking of; and how to save all hands
     Look ye; when captain Ahab is all right, then this left arm of mine will be
     My friend, said I, what all this gibberish of yours is about, I don't
     Nantucket.  So down we went into the cabin, and to my great joy Queequeg
     Peleg!  Peleg!  said Bildad, lifting his eyes and hands, thou thyself, as
     Quick, I say, you Bildad, and get the ship's papers.  We must have Hedgehog
     See if you can find 'em now, will ye?  Find who?  Morning to ye!  morning
     Shipmates, have ye shipped in that ship?
     Stop!  cried the stranger.  Ye said true --ye hav'n't seen Old Thunder yet,
     That's true, that's true --yes, both true enough.  But you must jump when he
     Thou knowest best, was the sepulchral reply, the seven hundred and
     Very dim, very dim, said Elijah.  Morning to ye.  Once more we quitted him;
     Well, Captain Bildad, interrupted Peleg, what d'ye say, what lay shall we
     What do you mean, sir?  Was the other one lost by a whale?  Lost by a whale!
     Who is Captain Ahab, sir?  Aye, aye, I thought so.  Captain Ahab is the
     Yes, I thought I did see four or five men; but it was too dim to be sure.
     You mean the ship Pequod, I suppose, said I, trying to gain a little more
     Young man, come nearer to me: it was devoured, chewed up, crunched by the
     accidental advantages, to learn a bold and nervous lofty language --that man
     all I know is, that Queequeg here is a born member of the First
     and on that side of it retraced our steps.  But Elijah passed on, without
     and seated himself at a little table.  I began to think it was high time to
     deck, where we followed him.  There he stood, very quietly overlooking some
     her original grotesqueness, and inlaid it, all over, with a quaintness both
     here needs the grindstone.  That's he; thank ye, Bildad.  Now then, my young
     in that we all join hands.  Splice, thou mean'st splice hands, cried
     it's better to sail with a moody good captain than a laughing bad one.  So
     lays, and that these lays were proportioned to the degree of importance
     one way nor the other way, but sat like a carved image with scarce a sign of
     resisted.  Running down stairs, I quickly stated my suspicions to the first
     though he twitched a little as if still nervously agitated.  Whew!  he
     thy last Captain, didst thou? --Dost not think of murdering the officers when
     which way to it?  Run for God's sake, and fetch something to pry open the
     you never saw such a rare old craft as this same rare old Pequod.  She was a
'em!  Morning to ye, shipmates, morning; the ineffable heavens bless ye; I'm
-- come along with ye.  And so saying, he led the way below deck into the
--and Yojo had told him two or three times over, and strongly insisted upon it
--and with that she seized my arm.  What's the matter with you?  What's the
--but never mind, never mind --it's all one, all in the family too; --sharp
--ever been in a stove boat?  No, Sir, I never have.  Dost know nothing at
--good luck to 'em; and they are all the better off for it.  A soul's a sort
--how to rig jury-masts -- how to get into the nearest port; that was what I
--might as well kill both birds at once.  Kill?  The Lord be merciful to his
--something like me --only there's a good deal more of him.  Aye, aye, I know
.. < chapter xix 2  THE PROPHET >
.. < chapter xvi 2  THE SHIP >
.. < chapter xvii 2  THE RAMADAN >
.. < chapter xviii 2  HIS MARK >
.. < chapter xx 15  ALL ASTIR >
.. < chapter xxi 2  GOING ABOARD >
.. <p 67 >
.. <p 68 >
.. <p 69 >
.. <p 70 >
.. <p 71 >
.. <p 72 >
.. <p 73 >
.. <p 74 >
.. <p 75 >
.. <p 76 >
.. <p 77 >
.. <p 78 >
.. <p 79 >
.. <p 80 >
.. <p 81 >
.. <p 82 >
.. <p 83 >
.. <p 84 >
.. <p 85 >
.. <p 86 >
.. <p 87 >
.. <p 88 >
.. <p 89 >
.. <p 90 >
.. <p 91 >
.. <p 92 >
.. <p 93 >
.. <p 94 >
.. <p 94 >
.. <p 95 >
.. <p 96 >
.. <p 97 >
.. <p 98 >
.. <p 99 >
Ahab of old, thou knowest, was a crowned king!  And a very vile one.  When
Ahab well; I've sailed with him as mate years ago; I know what he is--a
Ahab.  But nothing about that thing that happened to him off Cape Horn, long
And, after signing the papers, off I went; nothing doubting but that I had
Any how, young man, he won't always see me, so I don't suppose he will thee.
Bell, and the hideous dragon; turn from the wrath to come; mind thine eye,
Bildad, but with a marvellous oblique, sliding celerity, Bildad for that
Bildad, he carried about with him a long list of the articles needed, and at
Bildad, if I had followed thy advice in these matters, I would afore now had
Bildad, said Peleg, he wants to ship.  Dost thee?  said Bildad, in a
Bildad, who always sat so, and never leaned, and this to save his coat
Bildad, without noticing his present irreverence, quietly looked up, and
Bildad; how that they being the principal proprietors of the Pequod,
Bildad?  As if long habituated to such profane talk from his old shipmate,
But I said nothing, only looking round me sharply.  Peleg now threw open a
But to my surprise and no small concern, Queequeg now gave me to understand,
But when a man suspects any wrong, it sometimes happens that if he be
Canterbury Cathedral where Beckett bled.  But to all these her old
Captain Ahab?
Captain Peleg was one of the largest owners of the vessel; the other shares,
Captain Peleg.  Well, bring him along then.
Captain himself.  Thou art speaking to Captain Peleg --that's who ye are
Captain of the Pequod, what dost thou want of him?  he demanded.  I was
Captain of this ship.  I am mistaken then.  I thought I was speaking to the
Charity --Aunt Charity, as everybody called her.  And like a sister of
Congregational Church.  He is a deacon himself, Queequeg is.  Young man,
Deuteronomy --why Father Mapple himself couldn't beat it, and he's reckoned
Deuteronomy Coleman's meeting-house?  and so saying, taking out his
Elijah, that I consider you a little impertinent?  No, no, no; I wasn't
First Congregation of this whole worshipping world; we all belong to that;
Fishiest of all fishy places was the Try Pots, which well deserved its name;
French grenadier's, who has alike fought in Egypt and Siberia.  Her
God's sake, run for the doctor, some one, while I pry it open!  Look here,
Going forward to the forecastle, we found the slide of the scuttle open.
He put his hand upon the sleeper's rear, as though feeling if it was soft
He's a queer man, Captain Ahab --so some think --but a good one.  Oh, thou'lt
However, my thoughts were at length carried in other directions, so that for
Humiliation, was to continue all day, I did not choose to disturb him till
Hussey, said I, he's alive at all events; so leave us, if you please, and
I could not get into the faintest doze.  I had blown out the candle; and the
I left the ship the day previous; and the prediction of the squaw Tistig;
I myself, hast seen many a perilous time; thou knowest, Peleg, what it is to
I say; oh!  goodness gracious!  steer clear of the fiery pit!  Something of
I softly through the key-hole: --all silent.  I say, Queequeg!  why don't you
I stepped aside from the door to give egress to Bildad, who, I made no doubt,
I then asked Queequeg whether he himself was ever troubled with dyspepsia;
I thought that the 275th lay would be about the fair thing, but would not
I was already aware that in the whaling business they paid no wages; but all
I was also aware that being a green hand at whaling, my own lay would not be
I went up stairs to go to bed, feeling quite sure by this time Queequeg must
I will see to this strange affair myself.  Closing the door upon the landlady,
I've heard that he's a good whale-hunter, and a good captain to his crew.
I.  He's got enough, though, to make up for all deficiencies of that sort in
Japanese junks; butter-box galliots, and what not; but take my word for it,
Judgment then?  Hear him, hear him now, cried Peleg, marching across the
Lents, Ramadans, and prolonged ham-squattings in cold, cheerless rooms were
Mrs. Hussey soon appeared, with a mustard-pot in one hand and a vinegar-cruet
Nantucket Quakerism, but all his subsequent ocean life, and the sight of many
Now, Bildad, like Peleg, and indeed many other Nantucketers,
Oceans, and would prefer not to be detained.  Ye be, be ye?  Coming back
Peleg and Bildad, could attend to everything necessary to fit the vessel for
Peleg was vainly trying to mend a pen with his jack-knife, old Bildad, to my
Peleg's obstinate mistake touching his appellative, it stood something like
Peleg, at it again, Bildad, eh?  Ye have been studying those Scriptures,
Peleg, drawing nearer.  Young man, you'd better ship for a missionary,
Peleg, many years her chief-mate, before he commanded another vessel of his
Pequod fitted out for the voyage, and supplied with all her needs, including
Pequod, --this old Peleg, during the term of his chief-mateship, had built upon
Pequod.  Never say it anywhere.  Captain Ahab did not name himself. 'Twas a
Pequod?  said I, advancing to the door of the tent.  Supposing it be the
Pottowotamie Sachem's head.  A triangular opening faced towards the bows of
Quakers; they are Quakers with a vengeance.  So that there are instances among
Queequeg and I had just left the Pequod, and were sauntering away from the
Queequeg placed great confidence in the excellence of Yojo's judgment and
Queequeg was about to precede me up the stairs, the lady reached forth her
Queequeg's, or rather Yojo's, touching the selection of our craft; I did not
Queequeg, ain't that a live eel in your bowl?  Where's your harpoon?
Queequeg, as if he had been screwed down to the floor.  But as soon as the
Queequeg, don't sit there, said I. Oh!  perry dood seat, said Queequeg, my
Queequeg, then, fasting on his tomahawk pipe, and Yojo warming himself at
Queequeg, with the most unaccountable glances.  Elijah, said I, you will
Queequeg.  But not a word did he reply.  Despairing of him, therefore, I
Ramadan, or day of fasting, humiliation, and prayer with Queequeg and Yojo
Scandinavian sea-king, or a poetical Pagan Roman.  And when these things unite
Scriptural and domestic phrases.  Avast there, avast there, Bildad, avast now
Seeing a light, we went down, and found only an old rigger there, wrapped in a
Somehow, the sight of him struck me so, that I said nothing to Queequeg of
Son of darkness, he added, turning to Queequeg, art thou at present in
The seven hundred and seventy-seventh lay, Captain Peleg.  Thou Bildad!
The space between the decks was small; and there, bolt-upright, sat old
There was a fishy flavor to the milk, too, which I could not at all account
Think of Death and the Judgment then?  No!  no time to think about Death then.
Thou beliest thine own heart, Peleg.  Tell me, when this same Pequod here had
Vineyard.  But what takes thee a-whaling?  I want to know that before I think
When all preliminaries were over and Peleg had got everything ready for
Without saying a word, Queequeg, in his wild sort of way, jumped upon the
Ye hav'n't seen him yet, have ye?  No, we hav'n't.  He's sick they say, but
Yojo had provided to carry Queequeg and me round the Cape.  But I had not
Yojo in our little bedroom --for it seemed that it was some sort of Lent or
You see him?  well, spose him one whale eye, well, den!  and taking sharp
a conscience to lug about that would be heavy enough to founder the largest
a member?  he then said, turning to me; not very long, I rather guess,
a plum-pudding voyage, as they called it (that is, a short whaling-voyage in
a sailor who had visited that very island, and he told me that it was the
a schooner or brig, confined to the north of the line, in the Atlantic Ocean
a ship in which her beloved brother Bildad was concerned, and in which she
a very early start.
about Captain Ahab, and how he was, and when he was going to come on board
about his losing his leg last voyage, according to the prophecy.  Didn't ye
about religion made much impression upon Queequeg.  Because, in the first
about that, eh?  Nothing about the silver calabash he spat into?  And nothing
about the value of a timber head, or a foot of plank, or a nail or two in the
about what whaling is; do ye yet feel inclined for it?  I do, sir.  Very
above a hundred yards, when chancing to turn a corner, and looking back as I
absolute dictator of it, so soon as the ship sailed out upon the open sea.
acquiesce; and accordingly prepared to set about this business with a
active life.  Queequeg, said I, going up to him, Queequeg, what's the
activity aboard the pequod.  not only were the old sails being mended, but
adventure of their subsequent lives, strangely blend with these unoutgrown
afore breakfast?  He's cracked, Queequeg, said I, come on.  Holloa!
ago, when he lay like dead for three days and nights; nothing about that
aim at it, he darted the iron right over old Bildad's broad brim, clean across
ain't Captain Bildad; no, and he ain't Captain Peleg; he's Ahab, boy; and
alarmed by his energy, perhaps also a little touched at the hearty grief in
alarmed.  I had allowed him such abundant time; I thought he might have had
alike --for we are all somehow dreadfully cracked about the head, and sadly
all about whaling, I dare say --eh?  Nothing, Sir; but I have no doubt I
all describe, was not exactly awe; I do not know what it was.  But I felt
all kinds of vague wonderments and half-apprehensions, and all connected with
all pass off.  And once for all, let me tell thee and assure thee, young man,
all right; not before.  What do you know about him?  What did they tell
all.  Any how, it's all fixed and arranged a'ready; and some sailors or
almost, but a spare captain and duplicate ship.  At the period of our arrival
already involved in the matter, he insensibly strives to cover up his
altogether cool and self-collected; right in the middle of the room;
ambition, all mortal greatness is but disease.  But, as yet we have not to
an apoplectic fit.  I looked through the key-hole; but the door opening into
an odd corner of the room, the key-hole prospect was but a crooked and
an undigested apple-dumpling; and since then perpetuated through the
and Hosea Hussey had his account books bound in superior old shark-skin.
and again marking the sleeper, jocularly hinted to Queequeg that perhaps we
and better, and was expected aboard every day; meantime, the two Captains,
and board, for which I would not have to pay one stiver.  It might be thought
and calms of all four oceans, her old hull's complexion was darkened like a
and cocoanuts; and with some parsley in their mouths, were sent round with
and dressed; and Queequeg, taking a prodigiously hearty breakfast of chowders
and every mother's son and soul of us belong; the great and everlasting
and eye levelled at the Pequod, the beggar-like stranger stood a moment, as if
and he handles it about right.  I say, Quohog, or whatever your name is, did
and no possible mistake.  Queequeg! --Queequeg! --all still.  Something must
and pryed about the Devil-Dam; from her, hopped over to the Tit-bit; and,
and responsible owners of the ship, and feeling half a mind to give up all
and rituals must be over, I went up to his room and knocked at the door; but
and selecting one entitled The Latter Day Coming; or No Time to Lose, placed
and the Pequod was as good a ship as any --I thought the best -- and all this I
and the judgment then?  What?  With all three masts making such an everlasting
and the pequod.  devil- dam, i do not know the origin of; tit-bit is
and the voyage we had bound ourselves to sail; and a hundred other shadowy
and then concluded by roaring back into his wigwam.  During these days of
and then jump after it?  Answer, quick!  I am, sir, if it should be
annuitants; widows, fatherless children, and chancery wards; each owning
another time with a bunch of quills for the chief mate's desk, where he kept
antiquities, were added new and marvellous features, pertaining to the wild
apoplexy! --and with these cries, she ran towards the kitchen, I following.
apparelled like any barbaric Ethiopian emperor, his neck heavy with pendants
appearance of the elderly man I saw; he was brown and brawny, like most old
are called serious things, and indeed deemed those selfsame serious things
arm, and demanded his harpoon; she allowed no harpoon in her chambers.  Why
as a rather good sort of god, who perhaps meant well enough upon the whole,
as all my remonstrances produced no effect upon Queequeg, I was obliged to
as is sometimes the case in these ports, being held by a crowd of old
at his frantic impudence.  At last, stepping on board the Pequod, we found
at the Island, the heaviest storage of the Pequod had been almost completed;
at the feet.  We kept the pipe passing over the sleeper, from one to the
at the men down the hatchways, roaring up to the riggers at the mast-head,
authority, in order to propose myself as a candidate for the voyage, at
aware of that, said elijah, slowly and wonderingly looking from me to
away, I was full of thoughtfulness; what had been incidentally revealed to
be found wanting in the Pequod, after once fairly getting to sea.  At one time
because that other person don't believe it also.  But when a man's religion
becomes really frantic; when it is a positive torment to him; and, in fine,
been a kind of moody --desperate moody, and savage sometimes; but that will
before hinted, I have no objection to any person's religion, be it what it
before hinted, for some time there was a continual fetching and carrying on
before long!  laughed the stranger, with a solemnly derisive sort of laugh.
being an incorrigible old hunks, and in his sea-going days, a bitter, hard
benevolent countenance
better than nothing; and if we had a lucky voyage, might pretty nearly pay
board of divers odds and ends of things, both large and small.  Chief among
bound to hell.  Flukes and flames!  Bildad, say that again to me, and start
brief, that if the captain have a family, or any absorbing concernment of
broad ends on the deck, a circle of these slabs laced together, mutually
broad shad-bellied waistcoat; from that becoming boat-header, chief-mate, and
broad-shouldered make.  But one thing, nevertheless, that made me a little
bulwarks, from thence into the bows of one of the whale-boats hanging to the
burying himself.  Oh!  never thee mind about that, Bildad, said Peleg.  Has
business that for more than half a century she had followed.  Old Captain
but in all cases did not succeed in his benevolent designs.  Now, this plan of
but once more he came softly after us; and touching my shoulder again, said,
but what the stingy old Bildad might have a mighty deal to say about shipping
by that, Captain Peleg?  said I, now jumping on the bulwarks, and leaving my
cabin, and thrusting his hands far down into his pockets, -- hear him, all of
cabin.  seated on the transom was what seemed to me a most uncommon and
captain makes himself visible by arriving to take command; for sometimes these
captain, and finally a ship-owner; Bildad, as I hinted before, had concluded
carved buckler or bedstead.  She was
castors, and scolding her little black boy meantime.  Wood-house!  cried I,
causes the muscles about the eyes to become pursed together.  Such
cave in; hence the spirit caves in; and all thoughts born of a fast must
certainly have brought his Ramadan to a termination.  But no; there he was
chance; and in that vessel I must immediately ship myself, for the present
charity did this charitable Aunt Charity bustle about hither and thither,
chest, and drawing forth the ship's articles, placed pen and ink before him,
child: hold ye then there can be any utter, hopeless harm in Ahab?  No, no,
chowder for dinner, and chowder for supper, till you began to look for
christians should be charitable in these things, and not fancy ourselves so
claw-footed look about her.  Long seasoned and weather-stained in the typhoons
close vicinity of the flying harpoon, had retreated towards the cabin gangway.
close.  Captain Peleg seldom or never went ashore, but sat in his wigwam
comfort, and consolation to all on board
communion with any christian church?  Why, said I, he's a member of the
compassion, as though he thought it a great pity that such a sensible young
comprising her beef, bread, water, fuel, and iron hoops and staves.  But, as
comrade standing on the wharf.  I mean, he replied, he must show his
concealed in this queer tenement, I at length found one who by his aspect
concerning him.  And somehow, at the time, I felt a sympathy and a sorrow for
consider the duty thou owest to the other owners of this ship-- widows and
considered from his own point of view; and, in the second place, he did not
consistency about worthy Captain Bildad.  Though refusing, from conscientious
constrained; especially, as in all probability he had been sitting so for
content; and there let him rest.  All our arguing with him would not avail;
corrupt, but lay--" Lay, indeed, thought I, and such a lay!  the seven
corrupt.  It was an exceedingly long lay that, indeed; and though from the
countenance.  What's the matter with you, young man?  Get the axe!  For
country way; won't hurt him face.  Face!  said I, call that his face?  very
craft in your day, for aught I know; --squared-toed luggers; mountainous
crew.  We are part owners and agents.  But as I was going to say, if thou
cried Bildad, is this Philistine a regular member of Deacon Deuteronomy's
cried Peleg, Thou dost not want to swindle this young man!  he must have
cried Peleg.  Pious harpooneers never make good voyagers --it takes the shark
cried stationary Elijah, hailing us when we had removed a few paces.  Never
custom, when a great battle had been gained there, to barbecue all the slain
dad whale dead.  Quick, Bildad, said Peleg, his partner, who, aghast at the
damaged in the head.  But if you are speaking of Captain Ahab, of that ship
dangerous weepons in their rooms at night.  So, Mr. Queequeg (for she had
day, with a long oil-ladle in one hand, and a still longer whaling lance in
day; how it was I never could find out, for, though I applied myself to it
deadly skrimmage with the Spaniard afore the altar in Santa? -- heard nothing
decided that this was the very ship for us.  You may have seen many a quaint
decks were worn and wrinkled, like the pilgrim-worshipped flag-stone in
determined rushing sort of energy and vigor, that should quickly settle that
determined to go to bed and to sleep; and no doubt, before a great while, he
did so, who should be seen but Elijah following us, though at a distance.
did; how could ye?  Who knows it?  Not all Nantucket, I guess.  But
directions from Mrs. Hussey concerning the nearest way to bed; but, as
distrustful about receiving a generous share of the profits was this: Ashore,
do with such an one, but with quite another; and still a man, who, if indeed
do, said Bildad, eyeing me, and then went on spelling away at his book in a
do; for I knew the inferences without his further hinting them.  I had seen
don't believe it's very punctual then.  I went down to supper.  After sitting a
don't take to be the fact.  Good again.  Now then, thou not only wantest to
don't think thou wilt be able to at present.  I don't know exactly what's the
done a good morning's work, and that the Pequod was the identical ship that
door --the axe! --the axe!  he's had a stroke; depend upon it! --and so saying I
doubloons; and so I thought at the time.  Why, blast your eyes, Bildad,
down our traps, resolving, however, to sleep ashore till the last.  But it
downwards and inclosed in his folded arms.  The profoundest slumber slept
drab-colored eye intently looking at you, made you feel completely nervous,
duty by thee; I am part owner of this ship, and feel concerned for the souls
each other's fashion, upon this ragged old sailor; and agreed that he was
earnestly enjoined that the selection of the ship should rest wholly with me,
earnestness of his manner.  Captain Ahab.  What!  the captain of our ship,
eaten that very evening.  No more, Queequeg, said I, shuddering; that will
enough; and then, without more ado, sat quietly down there.  Gracious!
enough; thou art shipped.  Yes, but I should like to see him.  But I
entertaining the most absurd notions about Yojo and his Ramadan; --but what of
equipped.  Every one knows what a multitude of things --beds, sauce-pans,
especially as Peleg, his friend and old shipmate, seemed such a blusterer.
every fresh arrival, down went his mark opposite that article upon the paper.
everything in profound quiet, not a soul moving.  The cabin entrance was
everyway, that instead of our going together among the whaling-fleet in
expressing the idea very plainly, so that he could take it in.  He said no;
eye that almost startled me.  Look ye, lad; never say that on board the
eye-wrinkles are very effectual in a scowl.  Is this the Captain of the
farthing is a good deal less than seven hundred and seventy-seven gold
father the king, on the gaining of a great battle wherein fifty of the enemy
fear, I beseech thee, remain not for aye a Belial bondsman.  Spurn the idol
felt like pushing him over, so as to change his position, for it was almost
ferocity in that particular whale, though indeed I might have inferred as
finally, going on board the Pequod, looked around her for a moment, and then
finally, he no doubt thought he knew a good deal more about the true religion
first Congregational Church.  Here be it said, that many tattooed savages
first I saw nobody; but I could not well overlook a strange sort of tent, or
first glimpse of sun entered the window, up he got, with stiff and grating
fish-bones coming through your clothes.  The area before the house was paved
fishermen's boats, I saw Hosea's brindled cow feeding on fish remnants, and
fit; and the silver calabash; and what Captain Peleg had said of him, when
flesh, no superfluous beard, his chin having a soft, economical nap to it,
flukes!  man, what makes thee want to go a whaling, eh? --it looks a little
foolish, ignorant whim of his crazy, widowed mother, who died when he was
footmanism quite unprecedented in other planets, bow down before the torso
for him --the likes of ye.  Morning to ye, shipmates, morning!  Oh, when ye get
for one, shall not lay up many lays here below, where moth and rust do
for the clothing I would wear out on it, not to speak of my three years' beef
for the pots there were always boiling chowders.  Chowder for breakfast, and
for the three hundredth lay.  Captain Peleg, said I, I have a friend with
for, till one morning happening to take a stroll along the beach among some
fortunes, and am quite content if the world is ready to board and lodge me,
frightened about his plaguy soul, that he shrinked and sheered away from
from behind Peleg's, out of the wigwam.  He must show that he's converted.
from him, with the fixed bayonet of his pointed finger darted full at the
frost this morning, ain't it?  Good bye to ye.  Shan't see ye again very
gave her to understand the whole case.  Unconsciously clapping the
get up and have some supper.  You'll starve; you'll kill yourself,
ghost!  What's that noise there?  You, young man, avast there!  And running
give this young man?
gives an order.  Step and growl; growl and go --that's the word with Captain
go a-whaling, to find out by experience what whaling is, but ye also want to
go in order to see the world?  Was not that what ye said?  I thought so.  Well
go round Cape Horn to see any more of it, eh?  Can't ye see the world where
good man --not a pious, good man, like Bildad, but a swearing good man
good-bye to thee --and wrong not Captain Ahab, because he happens to have a
good.  Now, art thou the man to pitch a harpoon down a live whale's throat,
gore.  How now in the contemplative evening of his days, the pious Bildad
great are made so through a certain morbidness.  Be sure of this, O young
greatly fear lest thy conscience be but a leaky one; and will in the end
grocers, costermongers, doctors, bakers, and bankers.  And though this also
gun --a straight wake with ye!  As he thundered out this he made a rush at
had been killed by about two o'clock in the afternoon, and all cooked and
had best sit up with the body; telling him to establish himself accordingly.
had not only been originally educated according to the strictest sect of
had nothing but his ordinary round jacket on.  For some time, do all I would,
hair and horns on.  Out of the cabin, ye canting, drab-colored son of a wooden
half-crazy conceits on these subjects.  There was Queequeg, now, certainly
half-revealing, shrouded sort of talk, now begat in me
hand free; look here; are you talking about prying open any of my doors?
hands, especially as I now found him on board the Pequod, quite at home there
hands, including the captain, received certain shares of the profits called
hands.  Turning back I accosted Captain Peleg, inquiring where Captain Ahab
harbor, and in concert selecting our craft; instead of this, I say, Yojo
hard pushed, I replied.  I mean, sir, the same ancient Catholic Church to
hard work out of them.  When Bildad was a chief-mate, to have his
hard-hearted to say the least.  He never used to swear, though, at his men,
harpoon in his side; ever since then I allow no boarders to take sich
harpoon was missing.  He's killed himself, she cried.  It's unfort'nate
have been surprised had I been offered the 200th, considering I was of a
have happened.  Apoplexy!  I tried to burst open the door; but it stubbornly
have the fear of death; how, then, can'st thou prate in this ungodly guise.
have thought myself to have been optically deceived in that matter, were it
have ye?  Who's Old Thunder?  said I, again riveted with the insane
haven't seen it since I put it there.  Running to a little closet under the
he being in other things such an extremely sensible and sagacious savage, it
he ever whaled it any?  turning to me.  Killed more whales than I can count,
he had, there seemed no more left in him, and he, too, sat down like a lamb,
he sat; and all he could do --for all my polite arts and blandishments --he
he'll twitch you off soon.  I wonder he don't wake.  Queequeg removed himself
head?  What's that stultifying saying about chowder-headed people?  But look,
hear a word about them matters and something more, eh?  No, I don't think ye
heart to undervalue even a congregation of ants worshipping a toad-stool; or
her three masts overboard in that typhoon on Japan, that same voyage when
here at the north, been led to think untraditionally and independently;
hereditary dyspepsias nurtured by Ramadans.
hereditary foe.  The helmsman who steered by that tiller in a tempest, felt
herself owned a score or two of well-saved dollars.  But it was startling to
high time to take that individual aside and argue the point with him.  And
high;  consisting of the long, huge slabs of limber black bone taken from
him, but for I don't know what, unless it was the cruel loss of his leg.  And
his Ramadan, we sallied out to board the Pequod, sauntering along, and
his adventurous career by wholly retiring from active life at the goodly age
his being behind, but passed on with my comrade, anxious to see whether the
his bleeding stump that brought that about, as any one might see.  I know,
his book, Lay not up for yourselves treasures upon earth, where moth--
his concluding exclamation, but said as calmly as I could, What you say is
his drab vesture was buttoned up to his chin; and spectacles on nose, he
his face, and left it like the complicated ribbed bed of a torrent, when the
his forehead again against mine; and said his Ramadan was over.  Now, as I
his leg.
his log; a third time with a roll of flannel for the small of some one's
his sacrificial fire of shavings, I sallied out among the shipping.  After
his ship.  To these questions they would answer, that he was getting better
his utilitarian character.  On his long, gaunt body, he carried no spare
his vest.  Still, for all this immutableness, was there some lack of common
holds true of merchant vessels, yet not by any means to the same extent as
hollow tone, and turning round to me.  I dost, said I unconsciously, he was
home, were mostly all carried ashore to the hospital, sore exhausted and worn
hows'ever, mayhap, ye've heard tell about the leg, and how he lost it; aye,
huge pockets of his broad-skirted drab coat, took out a bundle of tracts,
humorously or in earnest.  But concentrating all his crow's feet into one
hundred and seventy-seventh!  Well, old Bildad, you are determined that I,
hundredth lay, I say.  Bildad laid down his book, and turning solemnly
i can't tell; but as thou art still an impenitent man, captain Peleg, I
idea of sailing in a vessel so questionably owned and temporarily commanded,
idleness perished from before him.  His own person was the exact embodiment of
if either by birth or other circumstances, he have what seems a half wilful
impenitent Peleg and his ways.  As for Peleg, after letting off his rage as
imperfect misty dawn, when we drew nigh the wharf.  There are some sailors
important to tell us, out with it; but if you are only trying to bamboozle
impossibility of replacing them at the remote harbors usually frequented, it
in a man of greatly superior natural force, with a globular brain and a
in a troubled reverie; then starting a little, turned and said: -- Ye've
in colleges, as well as 'mong the cannibals; been used to deeper wonders than
in faded jacket and patched trowsers; a rag of a black handkerchief
in for safe keeping.  La!  La, ma'am! --Mistress!  murder!  Mrs. Hussey!
in great wooden trenchers, and garnished round like a pilau, with breadfruit
in short, everything betokened that the ship's preparations were hurrying to a
in the cabin, and reading his Bible as if at his own fireside.  Now while
in the other, having just broken away from the occupation of attending to the
in the yard or garden of the victor; and then, one by one, they were placed
inasmuch as Yojo purposed befriending us; and, in order to do so, had already
indispensable to the business of housekeeping.  Just so with whaling, which
individual circumstances.  Like Captain Peleg, Captain Bildad was a well-to-do,
infallibly light upon, for all the world as though it had turned out by
instead of a fore-mast hand; I never heard a better sermon.  Deacon
insulated Quakerish Nantucketer, was full of his insular prejudices, and
insult me.  It's an all-fired outrage to tell any human creature that he's
interlacing round his eyes, which must have arisen from his continual
interposed the mustard-pot and vinegar-cruet, and the entire castor of her
intolerable, it seemed so painfully and unnaturally
invaded the Atlantic and Pacific; and though a sworn foe to human bloodshed,
investing his neck.  A confluent small-pox had in all directions flowed over
irrespective of Queequeg.  I have forgotten to mention that, in many things,
is a pretty large number, yet, when you come to make a teenth of it, you
is getting better, and will be all right again before long.  All right again
is no telling how many things to be thought of, before the Pequod was fully
it in queequeg's hands, and then grasping them and the book with both his,
it would have washed some of that devil's blue off his face.  Do tell, now,
it; and it did not disincline me towards him; though I felt impatience at
jacket, and threw it over him, as it promised to be a very cold night; and he
joints, but with a cheerful look; limped towards me where I lay; pressed
just so I now did with Queequeg.  Queequeg, said I, get into bed now, and
just where I had left him; he had not stirred an inch.  I began to grow
keeping a sharp look-out upon the hands: Bildad did all the purchasing and
kindhearted, who seemed resolved that, if she could help it, nothing should
knives and forks, shovels and tongs, napkins, nut-crackers, and what not, are
know, and I don't much care; for it seems to me that you must be a little
lance!  aye, the keenest and the surest that out of all our isle!  Oh!  he
land wood, but deftly travelled over sheaves of sea-ivory.  Scorning a
landing of the stairs, she glanced in, and returning, told me that Queequeg's
landlady.  But all we said, not a word could we drag out of him; I almost
last for ever, thank God, and his Ramadan only comes once a year; and I
learned his name), I will just take this here iron, and keep it for you till
leaves her to the owners till all is ready for sea.  However, it is always as
let him be, I say: and Heaven have mercy on us all --Presbyterians and Pagans
let's leave this crazy man.  But stop, tell me your name, will you?
lie and listen to me.  I then went on, beginning with the rise and progress
like him well enough; no fear, no fear.  he's a grand, ungodly, god-like
like mad, at something or other, never mind what.  Indolence and
like men going towards that ship a while ago?  Struck by this plain
like that plan at all.  I had not a little relied on Queequeg's sagacity to
like the Tartar, when he holds back his fiery steed by clutching its jaw.  A
like the worn nap of his broad-brimmed hat.  Such, then, was the person that I
little cabin-boy in short clothes of the drabbest drab, to a harpooneer in a
little out of his mind for a spell; but it was the sharp shooting pains in
little, in the uncertain twilight, strangely peering from Queequeg to me.  It
locked within; the hatches were all on, and lumbered with coils of rigging.
long sharp teeth of the sperm whale, inserted there for pins, to fasten her
long time listening to the long stories of some sailors who had just come from
looked earnestly into his eyes, and said, Son of darkness, I must do my
lungs are a sort of soft, d'ye see; thou dost not talk shark a bit.  Sure,
magnitude of the figure it might at first deceive a landsman, yet the
makes one in a whole nation's census --a mighty pageant creature, formed for
makes this earth of ours an uncomfortable inn to lodge in; then I think it
man should be so hopelessly lost to evangelical pagan piety.  At last we rose
man, Captain Ahab; doesn't speak much; but, when he does speak, then you may
man, Ishmael's thy name, didn't ye say?  Well then, down ye go here, Ishmael,
marching along the sand with each foot in a cod's decapitated head, looking
mark?  But at this question, Queequeg, who had twice or thrice before taken
massive forefinger at the vessel in question.  He was but shabbily apparelled
matter with him; but he keeps close inside the house; a sort of sick, and
matter with you, shipmate?  In as calm, but rapid a manner as possible, I
matter with you?  He hain't been a sittin' so all day, has he?  said the
matter-of-fact question, I answered, saying,
may tell thee the same.  I wish to warn thee.  It's a lie.  I know Captain
may, so long as that person does not kill or insult any other person,
me a sign, with --"no suicides permitted here, and no smoking in the parlor;"
me of Captain Ahab, filled me with a certain wild vagueness of painfulness
me to understand that, in his land, owing to the absence of settees and sofas
me who wants to ship too --shall I bring him down to-morrow?  To be sure,
mean they know he's only one leg; and that a parmacetti took the other off.
meeting?  I never saw him going there, and I pass it every Lord's day.
mere thought of Queequeg--
might have been wasted.
mind him, said I, Queequeg, come on.  But he stole up to us again, and
monstrousest parmacetty that ever chipped a boat! --ah, ah!  I was a little
more than one third understand me, couch my ideas simply as I would; and,
more than that.  Seven hundred and seventy-seventh, again said Bildad,
more till break of day; when, looking over the bedside, there squatted
morning.  But the chowder; clam or cod to-morrow for breakfast, men?  Both,
mother! --it will be the ruin of my house.  Has the poor lad a sister?  Where's
much from the simple fact of the accident.  Look ye now, young man, thy
much prolonged sauntering and many random inquiries, I learnt that there
mumbling tone quite audible.  I thought him the queerest old Quaker I ever saw,
must be remembered, that of all ships, whaling vessels are the most exposed
must be the matter.  I went to make the bed after breakfast, and the door
my astonishment, he sat down again on the transom very quietly, and seemed
my lad; stricken, blasted, if he be, Ahab has his humanities!  As I walked
my soul-bolts, but I'll--I'll--yes, I'll swallow a live goat with all his
native born Quaker one single jot, had not so much as altered one angle of
native island.  It must be so; yes, it's part of his creed, I suppose; 
necessarily be half-starved.  This is the reason why most dyspeptic
necessitates a three-years' housekeeping upon the wide ocean, far from all
need mending.  Towards evening, when I felt assured that all his performances
nett proceeds of the voyage, whatever that might eventually amount to.  And
new sails were coming on board, and bolts of canvas, and coils of rigging;
next day the ship would certainly sail.  So next morning, Queequeg and I took
night in the same room with a wide awake pagan on his hams in this dreary,
night-watches in the remotest waters, and beneath constellations never seen
no answer.  I tried to open it, but it was fastened inside.  Queequeg, said
no doubt true enough, sir; but how could I know there was any peculiar
no small surprise, considering that he was such an interested party in these
noble craft, but somehow a most melancholy!  All noble things are touched
noble tragedies.  Nor will it at all detract from him, dramatically regarded,
noise the door flew open, and the knob slamming against the wall, sent the
not for Elijah's otherwise inexplicable question.  But I beat the thing down;
not four feet off --sitting there in that uneasy position, stark alone in
not?  said I; every true whaleman sleeps with his harpoon --but why not?
nothing but a humbug, trying to be a bugbear.  But we had not gone perhaps
nothing, and tried to think nothing.  At last it was given out that some time
notice my presence in any the slightest way.  I wonder, thought I, if this can
now repeated to Peleg.  Seeing me so determined, he expressed his willingness
now, for the last thirty years, to my certain knowledge.  How far ye got,
numerous articles peculiar to the prosecution of the fishery, and the
object.  Yes, said I, we have just signed the articles.  Anything down
oblige my friend and me by withdrawing.  We are going to the Indian and Pacific
obvious; Pequod, you will no doubt remember, was the name of a celebrated
of a deceased landed proprietor merely on account of the inordinate
of a fifth wheel to a wagon.  What are you jabbering about, shipmate?  said
of all its crew; if thou still clingest to thy Pagan ways, which I sadly
of all sorts, so that the landlady should not make much profit by reason of
of all sorts, the king, chiefs, and great people generally, were in the
of finding it out before ye bind yourself to it, past backing out.  Clap eye
of material and device, unmatched by anything except it be Thorkill-Hake's
of me imagine.  This circumstance, coupled with his ambiguous, half-hinting,
of polished ivory.  She was a thing of trophies.  A cannibal of a craft,
of shipping ye.  Well, sir, I want to see what whaling is.  I want to see
of sixty, and dedicating his remaining days to the quiet receiving of his
of the marchant service to me again.  Marchant service indeed!  I suppose now
of the primitive religions, and coming down to the various religions of the
of wood on his head.  For heaven's sake, Queequeg, get up and shake yourself;
old hempen thews and tendons to.  Those thews ran not through base blocks of
old lady of a most determined and indefatigable spirit, but withal very
on Captain Ahab, young man, and thou wilt find that he has only one leg.
on an old-fashioned oaken chair, wriggling all over with curious carving; and
only a twelvemonth old.  And yet the old squaw Tistig, at Gayhead, said that
only some of us cherish some queer crotchets noways touching the grand belief;
only there was a fine and almost microscopic net-work of the minutest wrinkles
only upon one memorable occasion.  It was after a great feast given by his
only); after listening to these plum-puddingers till nearly eleven o'clock,
orphans, many of them --and that if we too abundantly reward the labors of this
other chaps, abruptly said the stranger, placing a nervous emphasis upon the
other must go with him, I suppose; as well these as any other men, God pity
other.  Meanwhile, upon questioning him in his broken fashion, Queequeg gave
out of 'em; no harpooneer is worth a straw who aint pretty sharkish.  There
out.  For a pious man, especially for a Quaker, he was certainly rather
over the bulwarks, took a good long look at Queequeg.  How long hath he been
over the weather bow, I perceived that the ship swinging to her anchor with
overruling morbidness at the bottom of his nature.  For all men tragically
own, and now a retired seaman, and one of the principal owners of the
pained me, very badly pained me, to see him now so deplorably foolish about
papers.  Yea, said Captain Bildad in his hollow voice, sticking his head
part in similar ceremonies, looked no ways abashed; but taking the offered
particular, perhaps, about the
peculiar, it only results again from another phase of the Quaker, modified by
peculiarities of the Quaker, only variously and anomalously modified by
peculiarities, a thousand bold dashes of character, not unworthy a
pen, copied upon the paper, in the proper place, an exact counterpart of a
person i met --the chambermaid.  la!  la!  she cried, i thought something
pertaining to the respective duties of the ship's company.
picking our teeth with halibut bones.
pitched upon a vessel, which, if left to myself, I, Ishmael, should
place, he somehow seemed dull of hearing on that important subject, unless
plaster to the ceiling; and there, good heavens!  there sat Queequeg,
point out the whaler best fitted to carry us and our fortunes securely.  But
ponderous heart; who has also by the stillness and seclusion of many long
positively indispensable to do so; not to be got rid of, that is; which I
possessions yet owned and rented in his name.  I say, we good Presbyterian
possibly be a part of his Ramadan; do they fast on their hams that way in his
practical world quite another.  This world pays dividends.  Rising from a
preparation, Queequeg and I often visited the craft, and as often I asked
present time, during which time I labored to show Queequeg that all these
previous had taken from him, before our mounting to the chamber.  That's
proceeded far, when I began to bethink me that the captain with whom I was to
proceedings; Bildad never heeded us, but went on mumbling to himself out of
prospect was unlimited, but exceedingly monotonous and forbidding; not the
providing at the stores; and the men employed in the hold and on the rigging
putting them on very carefully, came out of the wigwam, and leaning stiffly
puzzled by this curious request, not knowing exactly how to take it, whether
queer round figure which was tattooed upon his arm; so that through Captain
rather distrustful of all aliens, unless they hailed from Cape Cod or the
rather wigwam, pitched a little behind the main-mast.  It seemed only a
ready to turn her hand and heart to anything that promised to yield safety,
really dogging us or not, and with that intent crossed the way with Queequeg,
receiving all nature's sweet or savage impressions fresh from her own virgin
reconciled these things in the reminiscence, I do not know; but it did not
religionists cherish such melancholy notions about their hereafters.  In one
religious obligations, never mind how comical, and could not find it in my
retired whaleman.  But unlike Captain Peleg --who cared not a rush for what
rheumatic back.  Never did any woman better deserve her name, which was
roared Peleg, starting up and clattering about the cabin.  Blast ye, Captain
running ahead there, if I see right, said I to Queequeg, it can't be
rushing waters have been dried up.  Have ye shipped in her?  he repeated.
sage and sensible conclusion that a man's religion is one thing, and this
said Bildad sternly, thou art skylarking with me --explain thyself, thou
said I, looking dubiously at the sleeper.  But it seemed that, when on the
said Queequeg, quietly hauling in the line, spos-ee him whale-e eye; why,
said Queequeg, shaking himself, go 'way!  Aint going aboard, then?  Yes,
said peleg.  fetch him along, and we'll look at him.  What lay does he
said quickly.  no matter though, i know many chaps that hav'n't got any,
said the landlady, quickly putting down the vinegar-cruet, so as to have one
said, drawing back his whole arm, and then rapidly shoving it straight out
sail for several days.  But no wonder; there was a good deal to be done, and
sail yet remained unseen by me; though, indeed, in many cases, a whale-ship
sail-makers who were mending a top-sail in the waist.  Now and then he
sailing in Nantucket ships at last come to be converted into the churches.
sailings in many hard gales, and always looking to windward; --for this
saw seated on the transom when I followed Captain Peleg down into the cabin.
says I; and let's have a couple of smoked herring by way of variety.
scowl, Captain Peleg started me on the errand.  Going forward and glancing
scruples, to bear arms against land invaders, yet himself had illimitably
seamen, and heavily rolled up in blue pilot-cloth, cut in the Quaker style;
see that leg? --I'll take that leg away from thy stern, if ever thou talkest
see this excellent hearted Quakeress coming on board, as she did the last
seeing me, glanced again inquiringly towards Peleg.  He says he's our man,
seem to concern him much, and very probably he had long since come to the
seemed absorbed in reading from a ponderous volume.  Bildad, cried Captain
seemed to have authority; and who, it being noon, and the ship's work
seemed to me, I pronounced him in my heart, a humbug.
seeming to notice us.  This relieved me; and once more, and finally as it
seems they always give very long notice in these cases, and the ship did not
seldom or never goes abroad without it, therefore he must be inside here,
settle with myself at what terms I would be willing to engage for the voyage.
seventy-seventh wouldn't be too much, would it? -- "where moth and rust do
several times, I never could master his liturgies and XXXIX Articles --leaving
shadows; she's off by sunrise, I guess; come on!  Avast!  cried a voice,
shall soon learn.  I've been several voyages in the merchant service, and I
she turned it in the lock; but, alas!  Queequeg's supplemental bolt remained
she would come on board with a jar of pickles for the steward's pantry;
ship of the old school, rather small if anything; with an old fashioned
ship that ever sailed round Cape Horn.  Captain Peleg, said Bildad
ship.  People in Nantucket invest their money in whaling vessels, the same
shipped, have ye?  Names down on the papers?  Well, well, what's signed, is
short, to the obvious laws of Hygiene and common sense.  I told him, too, that
should be offered at least the 275th lay --that is, the 275th part of the clear
shoulders, and then insinuating himself between us, stood stooping forward a
side-pocket, here's a key that'll fit, I guess; let's see.  And with that,
side; and then bracing his left knee, and poising his harpoon, cried out in
signed; and what's to be, will be; and then again, perhaps it wont be, after
signing the articles, word was given at all the inns where the ship's company
signing, he turned to me and said, I guess Quohog there don't know how to
since.  But I thought, may be, you had both gone off and locked your baggage
sinister one.  I could only see part of the foot-board of the bed and a line of
sink thee foundering down to the fiery pit, Captain Peleg.
slightest consideration will show that though seven hundred and seventy-seven
slightest variety that I could see.  Well, what's the report?  said Peleg
sloped towards each other, and at the apex united in a tufted point, where
so intense a Quaker.  What do ye think of him, Bildad?  said Peleg.  He'll
so long a voyage, without once laying my eyes on the man who was to be the
some such way as this: -- Cap'ain, you see him small drop tar on water dere?
something.  Come aboard, come aboard; never mind about the papers.  I say,
somewhere; he's talking about something and somebody we don't know.
soon, I guess; unless it's before the Grand Jury.  And with these cracked
sorry I stopped ye.  Look here, friend, said I, if you have anything
spare boats, spare spars, and spare lines and harpoons, and spare everythings,
speak?  It's I--Ishmael.  But all remained still as before.  I began to grow
speaking to, young man.  It belongs to me and Captain Bildad to see the
spectacles, he rubbed them with his great yellow bandana handkerchief, and
splice a rope, and all that, I made no doubt that from all I had heard I
spoiling our harpooneer,
squatting on his hams, and holding Yojo on top of his head.  He looked neither
stark nonsense; bad for the health; useless for the soul; opposed, in
steadfastly eyeing Queequeg, and at last rising solemnly and fumbling in the
steadily, thy conscience may be drawing ten inches of water, or ten fathoms,
stiffly up like the spines of the three old kings of Cologne.  Her ancient
stiggs done over again --there goes another counterpane --god pity his poor
stooped to pick up a patch, or save an end of tarred twine, which otherwise
story, that when he sailed the old Categut whaleman, his crew, upon arriving
strange, thought I; but at any rate, since the harpoon stands yonder, and he
stranger would turn the same corner that we did.  He did; and then it seemed
stuff of which the wigwam was constructed.  There was nothing so very
sudden bodily rush dashed myself full against the mark.  With a prodigious
suddenly clapping his hand on my shoulder, said -- Did ye see anything looking
surprising figure.  It turned out to be Captain Bildad, who along with
surprising forecast of things; and cherished Yojo with considerable esteem,
suspended, was now enjoying respite from the burden of command.  He was seated
suspicions even from himself.  And much this way it was with me.  I said
suspicious, don't it, eh? --Hast not been a pirate, hast thou? --Didst not rob
sweet, resigned girl.  Think of that; by that sweet girl that old man has a
tails.  His broad-brim was placed beside him; his legs were stiffly crossed;
task-master.  They told me in Nantucket, though it certainly seems a curious
tattered pea-jacket.  He was thrown at whole length upon two chests, his face
tell Quohog there --what's that you call him?  tell Quohog to step along.  By
temporary erection used in port.  It was of a conical shape, some ten feet
than I did.  He looked at me with a sort of condescending concern and
that
that craft, unless they previously produced their papers.  What do you mean
that girl? --there, Betty, go to Snarles the Painter, and tell him to paint
that he had been diligently consulting Yojo --the name of his black little god
that he was never very jolly; and I know that on the passage home, he was a
that sort, he does not trouble himself much about his ship in port, but
that this was a poor way to accumulate a princely fortune --and so it was, a
that wicked king was slain, the dogs, did they not lick his blood?
that!  Mind what I said about the marchant service --don't aggravate me --I
that?  Queequeg thought he knew what he was about, I suppose; he seemed to be
the Pequod; and Captain Ahab; and the leg he had lost; and the Cape Horn
the Pequod?  Aye, among some of us old sailor chaps, he goes by that name.
the Vineyard; he joined the meeting, and never came to good.  He got so
the bottom of which was formed of a stout interlacing of the same elastic
the cold and dark; this made me really wretched.  Think of it; sleeping all
the entry a little, for a good start, when the landlady caught at me, again
the flood-tide, was now obliquely pointing towards the open ocean.  The
the great anchor, what a harpoon he's got there!  looks like good stuff that;
the island --and in childhood naturally imbibing the stately dramatic thee and
the loose hairy fibres waved to and fro like a top-knot on some old
the middle and highest part of the jaws of the right-whale.  Planted with their
the most sanguinary of all sailors and whale-hunters.  They are fighting
the name would somehow prove prophetic.  And, perhaps, other fools like her
the ninetieth lay, and that's more than ever was given a harpooneer yet out of
the other.  Nor was Bildad himself nor Captain Peleg at all backward.  As for
the present dark Ahab slipped my mind.
the salt sea yet lingered in old Bildad's language, heterogeneously mixed with
the ship's decks, and struck the glistening tar spot out of sight.  Now,
the ship, so that the insider commanded a complete view forward.  And half
the three hundredth, said Peleg, do ye hear that, Bildad!  The three
the veriest of all trifles --Captain Bildad
the victor's compliments to all his friends, just as though these presents
the voyage.  If I had been downright honest with myself, I would have seen
the wall, but nothing more.  I was surprised to behold resting against the
the waves; fixed his fiery lance in mightier stranger foes than whales.  His
the whole management of the ship's affairs to these two.  And I did not know
the world for a man to look as if he had a great secret in him.  Morning to
the world.  Want to see what whaling is, eh?  Have ye clapped eye on
them of men, who, named with Scripture names --a singularly common fashion on
then back to me and tell me what ye see there.  For a moment I stood a little
then, just step forward there, and take a peep over the weather-bow, and
then; but how hard he breathes, he's heaving himself; get off, Queequeg,
there
there about your souls?  About what?  Oh, perhaps you hav'n't got any, he
there all day and half the night on his hams in a cold room, holding a piece
there's one about a mile from here.  But avast!  putting her hand in her
there, I mean Quohog, in one of our boats.  Look ye, Quohog, we'll give ye
there, tell 'em I've concluded not to make one of 'em.  Ah, my dear fellow,
there, the Pequod, then let me tell you, that I know all about the loss of
therefore the other and more inconsiderable and scattered owners, left nearly
they said; but somehow he got an inordinate quantity of cruel, unmitigated
things altogether alien and heterogeneous.  For some of these same Quakers are
things.  I was resolved to satisfy myself whether this ragged Elijah was
think that-- Merchant service be damned.  Talk not that lingo to me.  Dost
think.  Well, what dost thou think then of seeing the world?  Do ye wish to
thinking of shipping.  Thou wast, wast thou?  I see thou are no Nantucketer
this day its inhabitants in general retain in an uncommon measure the
this ridiculous Ramadan of his.  Besides, argued I, fasting makes the body
this: -- Quohog his mark.  Meanwhile Captain Bildad sat earnestly and
those other creatures in certain parts of our earth, who with a degree of
those who did this fetching and carrying was Captain Bildad's sister, a lean
thou gettest to sea?  I protested my innocence of these things.  I saw that
thou of the Quaker idiom; still, from the audacious, daring, and boundless
thou went mate with Captain Ahab, did'st thou not think of Death and the
though the 275th lay was what they call a rather long lay, yet it was
three barrels of ile, was found dead in my first floor back, with his
thundering against the side; and every sea breaking over us, fore and aft.
till you could clutch something --a hammer or a marling-spike, and go to work
tiller was in one mass, curiously carved from the long narrow lower jaw of her
time eluded him.  Alarmed at this terrible outburst between the two principal
time for an uninterrupted look at him.  Aye, the Pequod --that ship there, he
to accidents of all kinds, and especially to the destruction and loss of the
to have not the slightest intention of withdrawing.  He seemed quite used to
to just beyond the head of the sleeper, and lighted his tomahawk pipe.  I sat
to me that he was dogging us, but with what intent I could not for the life
to one side of her nose, she ruminated for an instant; then exclaimed -- No!  I
to ship me.  And thou mayest as well sign the papers right off, he added
to ye!  he rejoined, again moving off.  Oh!  I was going to warn ye against
told you that I had been four voyages in the merchant-- Hard down out of
too, that ever since he lost his leg last voyage by that accursed whale, he's
towards him said, Captain Peleg, thou hast a generous heart; but thou must
towards night-fall; for I cherish the greatest respect towards everybody's
towards the ship, Queequeg carrying his harpoon, Captain Peleg in his gruff
treasure is, there will your heart be also.  I am going to put him down for
tribe of Massachusetts Indians, now extinct as the ancient Medes.  I peered
tricking herself forth in the chased bones of her enemies.  All round, her
trifling little affair.  Next morning early, leaving Queequeg shut up with
turnstile wheel at her reverend helm, she sported there a tiller; and that
unaccountable Ramadan!  But somehow I dropped off at last, and knew nothing
unclad, lovely island creatures, round the Horn --all that had not moved this
under the mask of these half humorous inuendoes, this old seaman, as an
unfort'nt v'y'ge of his, when he was gone four years and a half, with only
unpanelled, open bulwarks were garnished like one continuous jaw, with the
unwithdrawn within.  Have to burst it open, said I, and was running down
up after me, she caught me as I was again trying to force open the door.  I
upon him.  Those sailors we saw, Queequeg, where can they have gone to?
upwards of eight or ten hours, going too without his regular meals.  Mrs.
us, you are mistaken in your game; that's all I have to say.  And it's said
used to be good at sharpening a lance, mend that pen, will ye.  My jack-knife
vastly superior to other mortals, pagans and what not, because of their
venerable bows looked bearded.  Her masts--cut somewhere on the coast of Japan,
very large; but considering that I was used to the sea, could steer a ship,
very plainly in my heart that I did but half fancy being committed this way to
very poor way indeed.  But I am one of those that never take on about princely
very slip-shod, I assure ye.  Supper concluded, we received a lamp, and
very things upon which the success of the voyage most depends.  Hence, the
very well, and I like to hear a chap talk up that way; you are just the man
vexed with him; it seemed so downright senseless and insane to be sitting
vinegar-cruet
voice loudly hailed us from his wigwam, saying he had not suspected my friend
voluntary and confiding breast, and thereby chiefly, but with some help from
vowing I should not break down her premises; but I tore from her, and with a
voyages are so prolonged, and the shore intervals at home so exceedingly
wall the wooden shaft of Queequeg's harpoon, which the landlady the evening
want?  groaned Bildad, glancing up from the book in which he had again been
wantest to know what whaling is, as thou tellest ye do, I can put ye in a way
was Elijah.  Going aboard?  Hands off, will you, said I. Lookee here,
was a Quaker, the island having been originally settled by that sect; and to
was a cannibal, and furthermore announcing that he let no cannibals on board
was all eagerness to vanish from before the awakened wrath of Peleg.  But to
was locked; and not a mouse to be heard; and it's been just so silent ever
was no telling how soon the vessel might be sailing.  So Queequeg and I got
was soon enrolled among the same ship's company to which I myself belonged.
was thinking of.  Bildad said no more, but buttoning up his coat, stalked on
was to be found.  And what dost thou want of Captain Ahab?  It's all right
was unmethodically rushing up stairs again empty-handed, when Mrs. Hussey
was young Nat Swaine, once the bravest boat-header out of all Nantucket and
water, for the moment each occupied with his own thoughts, when the above
water; considerable horizon though, and there's a squall coming up, I
way that you do yours in approved state stocks bringing in good interest.
we are, said I, but what business is that of yours?  Do you know, Mr.
well listen.  Mark ye, be forewarned; Ahab's above the common; Ahab's been
well to have a look at him before irrevocably committing yourself into his
well, then, let him rest; he'll get up sooner or later, no doubt.  It can't
well-earned income.  Now Bildad, I am sorry to say, had the reputation of
were so many Christmas turkeys.  After all, I do not think that my remarks
were stopping, that their chests must be on board before night, for there
were three ships up for three-years' voyages --The Devil-Dam the Tit-bit,
were working till long after night-fall.  On the day following Queequeg's
whales, for fear of after-claps in case he got stove and went to Davy Jones.
wharf, Queequeg had not at all noticed what I now alluded to; hence I would
what seemed like mystery in him, so imperfectly as he was known to me then.
when I came back; what did ye see?  Not much, I replied -- nothing but
where her original ones were lost overboard in a gale --her masts stood
which you and I, and Captain Peleg there, and Queequeg here, and all of us,
while I am putting up at this grim sign of the Thunder Cloud.  Upon the whole,
whistled at last -- the squall's gone off to leeward, I think.  Bildad, thou
whose owner at the same time coming close behind us, laid a hand upon both our
wicked name.  Besides, my boy, he has a wife --not three voyages wedded --a
will be completely fitted out, and receive all her crew on board, ere the
will then see, I say, that the seven hundred and seventy-seventh part of a
with clam-shells.  Mrs. Hussey wore a polished necklace of codfish vertebra;
with that.  Now when I looked about the quarter-deck, for some one having
with whalemen.  For besides the great length of the whaling voyage, the
without lifting his eyes; and then went on mumbling -- for where your
won't allow it; I won't have my premises spoiled.  Go for the locksmith,
won't have it.  But let us understand each other.  I have given thee a hint
word he.  Queequeg, said I, let's go; this fellow has broken loose from
word, Queequeg, said I, rather digressively; hell is an idea first born on
words he finally departed, leaving me, for the moment, in no small wonderment
words were put to us by a stranger, who, pausing before us, levelled his
would follow me.  But previous to turning in, I took my heavy bearskin
would not move a peg, nor say a single word, nor even look at me, nor
write, does he?  I say, Quohog, blast ye!  dost thou sign thy name or make thy
ye feel considerable proud of having served in those marchant ships.  But
ye have heard of that, I dare say.  Oh yes, that every one knows a'most --I
ye've been to sea before now; sure of that?  Sir, said I, I thought I
ye, shipmates, morning.  Morning it is, said I. Come along, Queequeg,
ye.  Think of that!  When every moment we thought the ship would sink!  Death
yet I also felt a strange awe of him; but that sort of awe, which I cannot at
yet had he in his straight-bodied coat, spilled tuns upon tuns of leviathan
yet he don't look so.  In fact, he ain't sick; but no, he isn't well either.
you about him?  Say that!  They didn't tell much of anything about him; only
you are heavy, it's grinding the face of the poor.  Get off, Queequeg!  Look,
you can't fool us that way --you can't fool us.  It is the easiest thing in
you ever stand in the head of a whale-boat?  did you ever strike a fish?
you stand?  I was a little staggered, but go a-whaling I must, and I would;
young Hittite.  What church dost thee mean?  answer me.  Finding myself thus
young man, we may be taking the bread from those widows and those orphans.
young man.  No, said Peleg, and he hasn't been baptized right either, or
