











































































     A nice spot, cried Flask; just let me prick him there once.  Avast!
     A penny roll would choke him; his swallow is so very small.  But, to this,
     Adverse winds are holding mad Christmas in him, boys.  It's the first foul
     Bashaw assails him, and chases him away!  High times, indeed, if
     Being horizontal in its position, the Leviathan's tail acts in a different
     Bishop Jebb's anticipative answer is ready.  It is not necessary, hints the
     Crossing the
     Ere quitting, for the nonce, the
     Gallow the very wanderers of the dark And make them keep their caves.  To
     I had the curiosity to place a mirror before me; and ere long saw reflected
     I think that all this indirectly proceeds from the helpless perplexity of
     If the Sperm Whale be physiognomically a
     It was a terrific, most pitiable, and maddening sight.  The whale was now
     Nimble as a cat, Tashtego
     No ribs of man or boat can withstand it.  Your only salvation lies in eluding
     Now comes the Baling of
     Other poets have warbled the praises of
     Reference was made to
     That for six thousand years --and no one
     The long and narrow peninsula of
     The predestinated day
     The previous chapter
     The same secludedness and isolation to which the schoolmaster whale betakes
     There are some
     There she slides, now!  Hurrah for the white-ash breeze!  Down with the
     To make them run easily and swiftly,
     To scan the lines of his face, or feel
     Whale gives token of sinking, they fasten buoys to him, with plenty of
     What has he in his hand there?  cried Starbuck, pointing to something
     With a fair, fresh wind, the Pequod was now drawing nigh to these straits;
     With a grating rush, the three lines flew round the loggerheads with such a
     and all caught their breath, as half swinging --now over the sailors' heads,
     and as that long canal --like the grand Erie Canal --is furnished with a sort
     and fifty fins growing on each side of his upper chop, which arch over his
     and for several feet laid along, horizontally, just beneath the upper
     and not till you get near twenty feet from the forehead do you come to the
     and the ship seemed on the point of going over.  Hold on, hold on, won't
     and then you have two almost equal parts, which before were naturally
     and, I would add, possibly called The Whale, as some craft are nowadays
     been impertinent.  As on your physiognomical voyage you sail round his vast
     breach --somewhere else to be described --this peaking of the whale's flukes is
     but it seems to me, that in the whale the sense of touch is concentrated in
     but the Vedas, or mystical books, whose perusal would seem to have been
     circle, where abundance of room and some convenient retreats were afforded
     dexterously he lands on the summit of the head.  There --still high elevated
     do, do! --What's that Yarman about now?  At this moment Derick was in the act
     full of sparks, were given, when the exceeding strain effected the rest.
     hoisted Tun.  He has carried with him a light tackle called a whip,
     holding on, as it is called; this hooking up by the sharp barbs of his live
     into the great Kentucky Mammoth Cave of his stomach.  But let us hold on here
     its broad forward end forming the expanded vertical apparent forehead of the
     last elevated out of the water, and retained in that position by the
     making affrighted broken circles in the air, vainly striving to escape the
     or be content to lose him.  But to haul the boat up to his flank was
     or how do you know that they are not those identical drops superficially
     or whether that exhaled breath is mixed with water taken in at the mouth,
     originally invented by the Nantucket Indians, called druggs.  Two thick
     poor Tash by the head.  He averred, that upon first thrusting in for him, a
     power of speed to rid himself of the iron leech that had fastened to him; as
     raised from the mast-heads of both vessels; and so eager for the chase was
     seem almost as hopeful as for Lavater to have scrutinized the wrinkles on the
     strips off a frock, and the hole is stopped.  Third: I cannot demonstrate it,
     that he will keep thus bleeding and bleeding for a considerable period; even
     the Right Whale has two external spout-holes, the Sperm Whale only one.
     then a love of ease and virtue supplants the love for maidens; our Ottoman
     till it almost seemed that some spell had suddenly domesticated them.
     to hold this so-called dragon no other than the great Leviathan himself.  In
     unless, indeed, your fancy has been fixed by the technical term crown also
     very heedfully, like a treasure-hunter in some old house, sounding the
     whether the spout of the Sperm Whale is the mere vapor of the exhaled breath,
     will ye!  Stand clear of the tackle!  cried a voice like the bursting of a
     yet, even at the present day, we occasionally hear of English and American
     yet, upon
),
-- It's against my religion to get mad; but I'd like to eat that villanous
-- What a hump --Oh, do pile on the beef --lays like a log!  Oh!  my lads, do
--almost fatal operation whereby the Sperm Whale's great Heidelburgh Tun is
--cried daggoo again with a joyful shout; and soon after, Queequeg was seen
--don't oh, don't! -- see that Yarman --Oh!  won't ye pull for your duff, my
--glorified by a rainbow, as if Heaven itself had put its seal upon his
--particularly remark its front aspect, in all its compacted collectedness.  I
--scrape away!  The boat was now all but jammed between two vast black bulks,
--the delicious death of an Ohio honey-hunter, who seeking honey in the crotch
--this green, barnacled thing, which the Greenlanders call the crown, and
--though as yet a mile in their rear, --than they rallied again, and forming in
--upper, middle, and lower.  The fibres in the upper and lower layers, are long
.. < chapter lxxix 14  THE PRAIRE >
.. < chapter lxxv 17  THE RIGHT WHALE'S HEAD--CONTRASTED VIEW >
.. < chapter lxxvi 24  THE BATTERING-RAM >
.. < chapter lxxvii 2  THE GREAT HEIDELBURGH TUN >
.. < chapter lxxviii 2  CISTERN AND BUCKETS >
.. < chapter lxxx 2  THE NUT >
.. < chapter lxxxi 21  THE PEQUOD MEETS THE VIRGIN >
.. < chapter lxxxii 24  THE HONOR AND GLORY OF WHALING >
.. < chapter lxxxiii 26  JONAH HISTORICALLY REGARDED >
.. < chapter lxxxiv 2  PITCHPOLING >
.. < chapter lxxxv 11  THE FOUNTAIN >
.. < chapter lxxxvi 16  THE TAIL >
.. < chapter lxxxvii 6  THE GRAND ARMADA >
.. < chapter lxxxviii 28  SCHOOLS AND SCHOOLMASTERS >
.. <p 330 >
.. <p 331 >
.. <p 331 >
.. <p 332 >
.. <p 333 >
.. <p 333n. >
.. <p 334 >
.. <p 334 >
.. <p 335 >
.. <p 336 >
.. <p 337 >
.. <p 337n. >
.. <p 338 >
.. <p 339 >
.. <p 340 >
.. <p 341 >
.. <p 342 >
.. <p 343 >
.. <p 343 >
.. <p 344 >
.. <p 345 >
.. <p 346 >
.. <p 347 >
.. <p 348 >
.. <p 348 >
.. <p 349 >
.. <p 350 >
.. <p 351 >
.. <p 352 >
.. <p 353 >
.. <p 354 >
.. <p 355 >
.. <p 356 >
.. <p 357 >
.. <p 358 >
.. <p 359 >
.. <p 359 >
.. <p 360 >
.. <p 361 >
.. <p 362 >
.. <p 362 >
.. <p 363 >
.. <p 364 >
.. <p 365 >
.. <p 366 >
.. <p 367 >
.. <p 367 >
.. <p 368 >
.. <p 369 >
.. <p 370 >
.. <p 371 >
.. <p 372 >
.. <p 372 >
.. <p 373 >
.. <p 374 >
.. <p 375 >
.. <p 376 >
.. <p 376n. >
.. <p 377 >
.. <p 377 >
.. <p 378 >
.. <p 379 >
.. <p 380 >
.. <p 381 >
.. <p 382 >
.. <p 382n. >
.. <p 383 >
.. <p 384 >
.. <p 385 >
.. <p 386 >
.. <p 387 >
.. <p 387n. >
.. <p 388 >
.. <p 389 >
.. <p 389 >
.. <p 390 >
.. <p 391 >
.. <p 392 >
Ahab purposing to pass through them into the Javan sea, and thence, cruising
Ahab to-and-fro paced the deck; in his forward turn beholding the monsters he
And as that famous great tierce is mystically carved in front, so the whale's
Arnold, at the battle of Saratoga, carrying dismay wherever he went.  But
As a general thing, therefore, you must first get fast to a whale, before any
As if too long lurking behind the headlands, till the Pequod should fairly
As in decapitating the whale, the operator's instrument is brought close to
At the instant of the dart an ulcerous jet shot from this cruel wound, and
Australia, and dividing the long unbroken Indian ocean from the thickly
Baltic, and the Propontis.  Unlike the Danes, these Orientals do not demand the
Besides, it has been divined by other continental commentators, that when
Bishop, that we consider Jonah as tombed in the whale's belly, but as
Bremen.  At one time the greatest whaling people in the world, the Dutch and
But as if this vast local power in the tendinous tail were not enough, the
But far beneath this wondrous world upon the surface, another and still
But in the great Sperm Whale, this high and mighty god-like dignity inherent
But mark the other head's expression.  See that amazing lower lip, pressed by
But owing to the mystery of the spout --whether it be water or whether it be
But though boats have been taken down and lost in this way, yet it is this
But upon flinging the third, in the act of tossing overboard the clumsy
By thunder, men, we must do something or go for it.  No use prying there;
Crockett and Kit Carson --that brawny doer of rejoicing good deeds, was
Derick, that without pausing to put his oil-can and lamp-feeder aboard, he
Dericks, my friend.
Dome of the Pantheon.  Still, in that famous work of his, Lavater not only
Egypt of every man's and every being's face.  Physiognomy, like every other
English words --the etymological Howards and Percys --are now democratised, nay,
Equator awhile, they start for the Oriental waters in anticipation of the
Every one knows that by the peculiar cunning of their gills, the finny tribes
Furthermore, as his windpipe solely opens into the tube of his spouting canal,
Furthermore, you are now to consider that only in the extreme, lower, backward
German's aside with such force, that both Derick and his baffled harpooneer
Germans are now among the least; but here and there at very wide intervals of
Good Hope at so early a day would wrest the honor of the discovery of that
Hercules and the whale, and Arion and the dolphin;
Hercules, Jonah, and Vishnoo!  there's a member-roll for you!  What club but
Hurrah!  this is the way to sail now.  Every keel a sun-beam!  Hurrah! --Here
I know not that it has been defined before.  A quoin is a solid which differs
Indiamen chance to crowd and crush towards each other in the docks, what do
Indian unconsciously revealing by those struggles the perilous depth to which
Indian wigwam.  Good Lord!  is this the road that Jonah went?  The roof is
Indian, was so heedless and reckless as to let go for a moment his one-handed
It is an old Saxon word.  It occurs once in Shakespeare: -- The wrathful skies
It might have been darted by some Nor' West Indian long before America was
Japan, in time for the great whaling season there.  By these means, the
Java Head; they not a little correspond to the central gateway opening into
Jonah merely meant a life-preserver --an inflated bag of wind --which the
Jonah was thrown overboard from the Joppa ship, he straightway effected his
Jungfrau was again lowering her boats; though the only spout in sight was
Leviathan was slain at the very first dart.  And let no man doubt this Arkite
Leviathan's tail, his trunk is but the stalk of a lily.  The most direful
Leviathan, in the creature's living intact state, is an entire delusion.  As
Look your last, now, on these venerable hooded heads, while they yet lie
Lord; --Vishnoo, who, by the first of his ten earthly incarnations, has for
Malacca, extending south-eastward from the territories of Birmah, forms the
Mosque built in honor of Jonah, in which mosque was a miraculous lamp that
Nantucket irons entered the whale.  Blinding vapors of foam and white-fire!
Nevertheless, the boats pursued, and Stubb's was foremost.  By great exertion,
New-England rocks with the noble brawn of the old English emigrants in the
Nor do heroes, saints, demigods, and prophets alone comprise the whole roll of
Now, how had this noble rescue been accomplished?  Why, diving after the
Now, if after he fetches a few
Oh!  happy that the world is such an excellent listener!  Now, the spouting
One of these little infants, that from certain queer tokens seemed hardly a
Over this lip, as over a slippery threshold, we now slide into the mouth.
Pacific.  For some reason, the Jungfrau seemed quite eager to pay her
Pequod's deck, then, as she would rise on a high hill of the sea, this host
Perseus, a son of Jupiter, was the first whaleman; and to the eternal honor of
Perseus, the prince of whalemen, intrepidly advancing, harpooned the monster,
Phidias's marble Jove, and what a sorry remainder!  Nevertheless, Leviathan
Physiognomically regarded, the Sperm Whale is an anomalous creature.  He has
Physiognomist or Phrenologist has as yet undertaken.  Such an enterprise would
Portuguese Catholic priest, this very idea of Jonah's going to Nineveh via
Possibly, too, Jonah might have ensconced himself in a hollow tooth; but, on
Queequeg patted their foreheads; Starbuck scratched their backs with his
Quoin is not a Euclidean term.  It belongs to the pure nautical mathematics.
Read if it you can.
Rock of Gibraltar, or for Gall to have mounted a ladder and manipulated the
Russian campaign turned their dead horses into tents, and crawled into them.
Sag-Harbor (he went by that name) urged for his want of faith in this matter
Sag-Harbor, therefore, seems worsted all round.  But he had still another
Securing this block, so that it hangs down from the yard-arm, he swings one
Shakespeare's or Melancthon's rise so high, and descend so low, that the eyes
Should any unwarrantably pert young Leviathan coming that way, presume to
Soon, while the crews were awaiting the arrival of the ship, the body showed
Sperm Whale into such immense caravans, may be imputed the circumstance that
Sperm Whale is a very curious thing; nor has any fisherman yet adequately
Sperm Whale's head, I would have you, as a sensible physiologist, simply
Sperm Whale's tail to begin at that point of the trunk where it tapers to
Sphinx, to the phrenologist his brain seems that geometrical circle which it
Starbuck's orders, lines were secured to it at different points, so that ere
Starbuck, who had the ordering of affairs, hung on to it to the last; hung
Still rolling in his blood, at last he partially disclosed a strangely
Stubb, no, no, it's a coffee-pot, Mr. Starbuck; he's coming off to make
Surely, he will stop for water.  Nay.  For a long time, now, the circus-running
Tashtego at last succeeded in planting one iron; but the stricken whale,
Tashtego was sinking utterly down to the bottom of the sea!  But hardly had
The first and second were successfully darted, and we saw the whales
The result of this lowering was somewhat illustrative of that sagacious saying
The sperm whale, as with all other species of the Leviathan, but unlike
The three boats, in the first fury of the whale's headlong rush, bumped the
The whale, like all things that are mighty, wears a false brow to the common
They are comparatively delicate, indeed; I dare say, not to exceed half a
Third, in sweeping; Fourth, in lobtailing; Fifth, in peaking flukes.  First:
This reminds us that the Right Whale really has a sort of whisker, or rather
Thou shalt see my back parts, my tail, he seems to say, but my face shall not
Though all comparison in the way of general bulk between the whale and the
Though such a movement on the part of the whale struck under such
Tigris, very much more than three days' journey across from the nearest point
To gally, or gallow, is to frighten excessively --to confound with fright.
Tun of the Sperm Whale embraces the entire length of the entire top of the
Turkish Muezzin calling the good people to prayers from the top of a tower.  A
Turks; for these Grand Turks are too lavish of their strength, and hence
Under all these circumstances, would it be unreasonable to survey and map
Upon my word were I at Mackinaw, I should take this to be the inside of an
Whale is far less liable to this accident than any other species.  Where one
Whale were paved with horses' hoofs.  I do not think that any sensation lurks
Whale, a Platonian, who might have taken up Spinoza in his latter years.
Whale, the front of his head presents an almost wholly vertical plane to the
What tenderness there is in that preliminary touch!  Had this tail any
When serenely advancing on one of these journeys, if any strange suspicious
Whether he had lost that fin in battle, or had been born without it, it were
Whether to admit Hercules among us or not, concerning this I long remained
With a terrific snap, every fastening went adrift; the ship righted, the
Witness, too, all human beings, how when herded together in the sheepfold of
Yarman --Pull--won't ye?  Are ye going to let that rascal beat ye?  Do ye love
Yarman!  Sail over him!  But so decided an original start had Derick had,
You meet them on the Line in time for the full flower of the Equatorial
You would almost think a great gun had been discharged; and if you noticed
a Nantucketer with disdain, since even in our woollen frocks and tarred
a cracked rib or a dashed plank or two, a sort of stitch in the side, is
a dairy-maid's pail of new milk.  Carefully lowered from its height, the
a large herd of whales in the east, all heading towards the sun, and for a
a little off from the ship.  Ha!  ha!  cried Daggoo, all at once, from his
a moment, till they downwards shoot out of view.  Excepting the sublime
a moustache, consisting of a few scattered white hairs on the upper part of
a season when he might most reasonably be presumed to be haunting it.  But how
a sulk and pout that will yield you some 500 gallons of oil and more.  A great
a theatre's pit, they will, at the slightest alarm of fire, rush
a very long pole.  Inserting this pole into the bucket, Tashtego downward
abominable, devilish rebellion against the reverend clergy.  For by a
about a foot across.  Probably the mother during an important interval was
about the girth of a man, it comprises upon its upper surface alone, an area
about twelve feet high, and runs to a pretty sharp angle, as if there were a
above the rest of the company, to whom he vivaciously cries --he seems some
above-ground, in the air; how vast, then, the burden of a whale, bearing on
abreast with great speed straight before the wind, rubbing their flanks as
absolutely undeveloped skulls.  But the curious external resemblance, I take
accident against the vessel's side, so as firmly to embrace the jaw.  Does
accidentally takes in water.  But the Sperm Whale's food is far beneath the
accidents of the fishery, this whale had become entangled in the harpoon-line
accommodate a couple of whist tables, and comfortably seat all the players.
accompanied by all the solaces and endearments of the harem.  The contrast
accounted for it.  Usually the dead Sperm Whale floats with great buoyancy,
act of thinking deep thoughts.  While composing a little treatise on Eternity,
action of sweeping, when in maidenly gentleness the whale with a certain soft
actually harpooned his fish, unless, indeed, from the inside.  Nevertheless,
adornment of his wondrous tun.  Moreover, as that of Heidelburgh was always
affect the countenance of the whale.  For as in landscape gardening, a spire,
afraid, my butter-boxes, cried Stubb, casting a passing glance upon them as
after her four young keels, and thus they all disappeared far to leeward,
after six cups of hot tea in my thin shingled attic, of an August noon; this
after the lapse of many hours or several days, the sunken whale again rises,
afterwards killed at your leisure.  Hence it is, that at times like these the
again, he will be sure to have his seventy breaths over again, to a minute.
ago, an English traveller in old Harris's Voyages, speaks of a Turkish
agonizing as was the wound of this whale, and an appalling spectacle enough,
ahab quickly revolved in his pivot-hole, crying, aloft there, and rig whips
air; then smiting the surface, the thunderous concussion resounds for miles.
alights; less celestial, I celebrate a tail.  Reckoning the largest sized
all alone among the meridians and parallels saying his prayers, and warning
all answers to his nose is that identical spout-hole; and being so clogged
all beings.  For according to King Juba, the military elephants of antiquity
all herding creatures.  Though banding together in tens of thousands, the
all his other unmolested risings.  Say he stays eleven minutes, and jets
all over the world; every baby an exotic.  In good time, nevertheless, as the
all the time, Starbuck stood up in the bows, lance in hand, pricking out of
all their dexterous might, they caught repeated smoking turns with the rope
all these conceits had passed through his brain, Ahab's brow was left gaunt
all.
almost before Tashtego could have reached its interior bottom.  Meantime,
almost entirely of females, and those mustering none but young vigorous
almost seem as if numerous nations of them had sworn solemn league and
almost stand in it, and yet be undecided as to what it is precisely.  The
along its length to see if it be exactly straight, Stubb whistlingly gathers
along with you, cried Flask, it's a lamp-feeder and an oil-can.  He's out
alpine land lying along the snow line.  Few are the foreheads which like
alternating with the stone in those wonderful relics of the antique, and
always of the largest leviathanic proportions, the ladies, even at full
among gallied whales that this drugg is used.  For then, more whales are close
amount of oil.  Ere this, you must have plainly seen the truth of what I
an arm thrust forth from the grass over a grave.  both!  both! --it is both!
analogical probability.  At any rate, if we yield to it, we must grant a far
ancient one.  Like venerable moss-bearded Daniel Boone, he will have no one
and a lump of which sinks in it like lead almost.  But the tendency to rapid
and after several hours' pulling were almost disposed to renounce the chase,
and as human infants while suckling will calmly and fixedly gaze away from the
and be ready to abide by this; that though the Sperm Whale stove a passage
and buckets to wet the sails; --Malays, sir, and after us!
and delivered and married the maid.  It was an admirable artistic exploit,
and discharged through the spiracle.  It is certain that the mouth indirectly
and from the same point of view.  Indeed, place this reversed skull (scaled
and furnishing a supply of
and gazing upon its thousand pipes?  For a carpet to the organ we have a rug
and horizontal; those of the middle one, very short, and running crosswise
and kentledge.  She carries years' water in her.  Clear old prime Nantucket
and like King Porus' elephants in the Indian battle with Alexander, they
and never will.  But if I know not even the tail of this whale, how
and no prominence of any kind to denote their place; therefore, there must
and now over the water --Daggoo, through a thick mist of spray, was dimly
and rather than be thus foiled of his game, Derick chose to hazard what to
and ribbed, like the black sand beach after some stormy tide has been gnawing
and silks, and jewels, and gold, and ivory, with which the thousand islands of
and so on, there always goes up a certain semi-visible steam, while in the
and swimming on, in one solid, but still crescentic centre.  Crowding all sail
and the Dragon; which dragon I maintain to have been a whale; for in many
and the whale's gastric juices.  But this objection likewise falls to the
and the whale; and vice versa; certainly they are very similar.  If I claim
and those that by their enormous girth seemed shortly to become mothers.  The
and though
and we'd drink round it!  Yea, verily, hearts alive, we'd brew choice punch
and which, when additional game is at hand, are inserted upright into the
and with delighted nostrils the fresh cinnamon was snuffed in the air, yet
and yet their doubting those traditions did not make those traditions one
animal balloon.  A line-of-battle ship could hardly keep him under then.  In
animals there are certain valves or flood-gates in many of their veins,
another passage up the Persian Gulf and Red Sea, such a supposition would
any amazement at the strangely gallied whales before us, for there is no folly
any creature breathing is only a function indispensable to vitality, inasmuch
any profound being that had anything to say to this
any way; yet the peculiar horror with which he seemed to inspire the rest of
any whale to swim in.  Besides, this idea of Jonah's weathering the Cape of
appalling to the wounded whale must have been such huge phantoms flitting over
appearance of a baby's ears newly arrived from foreign parts.  Line!  line!
architects, these Vedas were lying at the bottom of the waters; so Vishnoo
ardor of youth declines; as years and dumps increase; as reflection lends
are hostile; that oil is a sliding thing, and that the object in view is to
are instances where,
are told, will he finally go down to stay out his full term below.  Remark,
arm, and his blind eyes, he must die the death and be murdered, in order to
arm, impotently rebounds from it.  It is as though the forehead of the Sperm
arrived, and we duly met the ship Jungfrau, Derick De Deer, master, of
as almost to defy pursuit for the time.  At this juncture, the Pequod's keel
as in a drought a river will flow, whose source is in the well-springs of
as it seemed, had broken away from the boat, carrying along with him half of
as it withdraws from the air a certain element, which being subsequently
as many Sperm Whales had been captured off the western coast of Java, in the
as must have been seen, even at the present day, small detached bands are
as ordinary fish possess what is called a swimming bladder in them, capable,
as token of prior possession, should the boats of any other ship draw near.
as, after deep sounding, he floats up again, and shows the slackened curling
aslant.  To cross to the other side of the deck was like walking up the steep
assailant.  Dissect him how I may, then, I but go skin deep; I know him not,
astern --St. Bernard's dogs, you know --relieve distressed travellers.
astern, and likewise to secure one which Flask had killed and waifed.  The
astonishing atmospheric weight we ourselves stand up under; even here,
at once a queer accident happened.  Whether it was that Tashtego, that wild
at that hanging lower lip!  what a huge sulk and pout is there!  a sulk and
at will, of distension or contraction; and as the Sperm Whale, as far as I
at.  But supplementary to this, it has hypothetically occurred to me, that
atheistical devils were infernally cheering him on with their curses; --when
atmospheric distension and contraction.  If this be so, fancy the
attached to one end of the whip; while the other end, being stretched across
august hump, if I mistake not, rises over one of the larger vertebrae, and
avast, I say with your handspikes, and run one of ye for a prayer book and a
awhile, still in tantalizing vicinity to young Lothario, like pious Solomon
backs.  Owing to the density of the crowd of reposing whales, more
backward toss.  The unmannerly Dutch dogger!  cried Stubb.  Pull now,
backwards, so as to furnish more of a retreat for the long socket which
balls.  The more I consider this mighty tail, the more do I deplore my
bands are known as schools.  They generally are of two sorts; those composed
barbs; and darted over the head of the German harpooneer, their three
be in sight, the fishermen will seldom give chase to one of these Grand
be in, its flexions are invariably marked by exceeding grace.  Therein no
be lodged there.  Here is a vital point; for you must either satisfactorily
be sagaciously urged, how is this?  We thought the tissued, infiltrated head
be seen.  But I cannot completely make out his back parts; and hint what he
be very long in following.  Can you catch the expression of the Sperm Whale's
be, and yet, that down to this blessed minute (fifteen and a quarter
beadle on his throne.  In some particulars, perhaps, the most imposing
beautiful crystalline shoots, as when the first thin delicate ice is just
became incarnate in a whale, and sounding down in him to the uttermost
because no vital part of him had thus far been struck.  His life, as they
because of its incredible power of swimming.  Nevertheless, the Fin-Back's
becharmed panic which it was impossible not to marvel at.  Like household dogs
been gained, were now in long quick coils flung back all dripping into the
before described.  But as the stumps of harpoons are frequently found in the
before the wind, which for centuries past, by night and by day, have passed
before?  it must be, he's lost his tiller.  As an overladen Indiaman bearing
begun upon his whole arterial system; and when this is heightened by the
beheld clinging to the pendulous tackles, while poor, buried-alive
behind him to upbubble.  Who's got some paregoric?  said Stubb, he has the
behind its vast outworks, like the innermost citadel within the amplified
being looped, it can in a moment be fastened to a harpoon.  It is chiefly
being pitched out too, when you strike a hill.  Hurrah!  this is the way a
being, inasmuch as it is an undisputed fact that he is never found on
belong, though but subordinately, to so emblazoned a fraternity.  The gallant
beneath them by the cords.  By very heedful management, when the ship drew
best contradictory authorities, this Grecian story of Hercules and the whale
best; for it is but reasonable to presume, that the longer the stricken
bestowed upon it; in which case you will take great interest in thinking how
between the islands of Sumatra and Java, freighted with the costliest cargoes
between the outside layers.  This triune structure, as much as anything else,
between this Ottoman and his concubines is striking; because, while he is
between two whales into the innermost heart of the shoal, as if from some
billow that he broke, he spasmodically sank in the sea, or sideways rolled
bird's nest in its crotch.  At any rate, when you watch those live crabs that
blemish at all.  Nay, it is an added grandeur.  A nose to the whale would have
blending atmosphere of bluish haze, showed like the thousand cheerful chimneys
blinds and whiskers for a moment, and, standing in the Right Whale's mouth,
blinds of bone; no huge lower lip; and scarcely anything of a tongue.  Again,
blood in a man could be aerated with one breath, he might then seal up his
blood, with swift fury blindly darted at the craft, bespattering them and
blow from the elephant's trunk were as the playful tap of a fan, compared with
board.  As the three boats lay there on that gently rolling sea, gazing down
board.  Is this the creature of whom it was once so triumphantly said -- Canst
boat's bottom --and by the Lord, the mast there's budding.  This won't do,
boat, and one morning not long after the German ship Jungfrau disappeared,
boats, and soon the whale broke water within two ship's lengths of the
boats.  But no sooner did the herd, by some presumed wonderful instinct of
boats; the timidity and liability to queer frights, so common to such whales;
body that a cry was heard from the Pequod's mast-heads, announcing that the
boldly striking out with one hand, and with the other clutching the long hair
bone in the Right Whale; his Venetian blinds alone sometimes weighing more
boneless toughness,  inestimable by any man who has not handled it.  The
bones of the monster that Perseus slew.  When the Romans took Joppa, the same
both bows, at the distance of some two or three miles, and forming a great
bottom as the seat slid from under him.  On both sides the sea came in at the
bottom.  Nor is it to be doubted that as such a procedure can do no harm, it
bottomless profundities the gigantic tail seems spasmodically snatching at the
bound to China from the west, emerge into the China seas.  Those narrow straits
boys.  Look at that Yarman!  The short and long of it is, men, will ye spit
braining feats; I trust you will have renounced all ignorant incredulity,
branches, like the cleft drooping boughs of a willow, the single
brandy?  A hogshead of brandy, then, to the best man.  Come, why don't some of
brawny, buoyant heroes do sometimes sink.  Be it said, however, that the Sperm
breast, as if leading two different lives at the time; and while yet drawing
breath, or so much as in any way inhaling a particle of air; for, remember,
breathe he must, or die he will.  But the Sperm Whale only breathes about one
breathe through his mouth, for, in his ordinary attitude, the Sperm Whale's
breaths you alarm him, so that he sounds, he will be always dodging up again
brigandish expression to his otherwise solemn countenance.
bright steel spans the foaming distance, and quivers in the life spot of the
bring your mind to bear on it, the other will be utterly excluded from your
brisk.
bristles, fins, whiskers, blinds, or whatever you please, furnish to
broad view, the Right Whale's head bears a rather inelegant resemblance to a
broad waters beyond; then, the harpooneers seemed more to grieve that the
broken teeth, scolloped fins; and in some instances, wrenched and dislocated
brought into contact with the blood imparts to the blood its vivifying
bulk, and now and then partly turning over on his cumbrous rib-ends, expose
buoyant matter in him.  But it is not so.  For young whales, in the highest
buried harpooneer should grasp it, and so be hoisted out.  In heaven's name,
buries, rolls, and wallows on her way; so did this old whale heave his aged
burnt without any oil.
but doubts or denials, few along with them, have intuitions.  Doubts of all
but he had not gained his ship's side, when whales were almost simultaneously
but not old; who, upon any alarm, evinces his gallantry by falling in the
but not the less true events, perhaps anywhere to be found in all recorded
by a ladder to the summit, have a peep down the mouth; and were it not that
by the other parts of the head remaining undetached from it, so that it sank
by the stiffest fluke-chains, for it was plain that unless artificially
by the subtle moisture thrown off by the whale in his more quiet moods.  Yes,
by the unusual yellowish incrustations overgrowing him, seemed afflicted
by the wonderful comparative magnitude of his spinal cord.  But leaving this
by this tooth, and look about us where we are.  What a really beautiful and
cabinet there is no telling.  But a sudden stop was put to further
called by the fishermen a school, so is the lord and master of that school
calves had been purposely locked up in this innermost fold; and as if the
canal is filled with much the same strangely fibrous substance -- the spinal
canal of the Sperm Whale, chiefly intended as it is for the conveyance of air,
capacity.  Now, of course, this
capsized, if still persisting in locking arms with the body; then, when the
capsizing, and he thundering away at his men in a mighty rage; --that was a
caravan, Moby Dick himself might not temporarily be swimming, like the
carcase sank.  Now, this occasional inevitable sinking of the recently killed
cases this lower jaw --being easily unhinged by a practised artist --is
cases, the boats at once separated, each making for some one lone whale on
cause of its stopping; or, possibly, being so young, unsophisticated, and
cause the most terrible duels among their rival admirers; just so with the
central body of it is hidden in the snowy sparkling mist enveloping it; and
central expanse the sea presented that smooth satin-like surface, called a
centuries back, thousands of hunters should have been close by the fountain
certainty of this criterion is far from demonstrable, yet it has the savor of
character, however admirably satirical, that after going to school himself,
characteristics of other beings than man.  Therefore, though I am but ill
chase, this natural line, with the maternal end loose, becomes entangled
chased, and in the after one the bloodthirsty pirates chasing him; some
chaste-looking mouth!  from floor to ceiling, lined, or rather papered with a
child-magian thoughts.  they deified the crocodile of the nile, because the
chin.  Next moment with a rapid, nameless impulse, in a superb lofty arch the
christened the Shark, the Gull, the Eagle.  Nor have there been wanting
churning through the water, violently flailing with his flexible tail, and
circles, and inclusive of the spaces between the various pods in any one of
circumnavigating Pequod would sweep almost all the known Sperm Whale cruising
circumstances, is in no wise unprecedented; and indeed is almost always more
clean out of sight!  Man overboard!  cried Daggoo, who amid the general
clearing the whip --which had somehow got foul of the great cutting tackles --a
close ranks and battalions, so that their spouts all looked like flashing
closely as so many spans of horses in harness.  They left a
clumped together at last in one dense body, they then renewed their onward
command was given to break clear from it, such was the immovable strain upon
common language, the word is now completely obsolete.  When the polite
commotion.  And still in the distracted distance we beheld the tumults of the
communicates with the spouting canal; but it cannot be proved that this is
completely overtake and pass him.  as for derick, he seemed quite confident
complicated channels and straits, knowing not at what moment it may be
comprehensive, combining, and subtle than man's, that he can at the same
concluding by hinting that his ship was indeed what in the Fishery is
conclusion I am impelled, by considerations touching the great inherent
consisting of only two parts, travelling through a single-sheaved block.
consternation first came to his senses.  Swing the bucket this way!  and
consternations and affrights, did these inscrutable creatures at the centre
contact, any merely hard substance,
contemporary consciousness.  How is it, then, with the whale?  True, both his
contingency provided for in suckling by two teats, curiously situated, one
contracting orbits the whales in the more central circles began to swim in
contradict the old proverb about carrying coals to Newcastle, yet sometimes
convolutions, to their apprehensions, it seems more in keeping with the idea
cool season there, and so evade the other excessive temperature of the year.
cord --as the brain; and directly communicates with the brain.  And what is
cord remains of an undecreasing girth, almost equal to that of the brain.
corpse of Goethe, he was overwhelmed with the massive chest of the man, that
costly material the heidelburgh Tun was coated within, but in superlative
country-schoolmaster that famous Frenchman was in his younger days, and what
covenant for mutual assistance and protection.  To this aggregation of the
crater -- in another cavity seldom exceeding ten inches in length and as many
crater to bed that part of the mass; while under the long floor of this
creatures, nay in man himself, very often the brow is but a mere strip of
crescent in our van, we beheld another in our rear.  It seemed formed of
cried Queequeg, looking over the gunwale; him fast!  him fast! --Who line
cried Starbuck, there's no need of that!  But humane Starbuck was too late.
cried Starbuck.  Look-e here, said Queequeg pointing down.  As when the
cried Starbuck; he mocks and dares me with the very poor-box I filled for
cripple the graceful flexion of its motions; where infantileness of ease
crocodile is tongueless; and the Sperm Whale has no tongue, or as least it
cross each other's grain at right angles; a line of considerable length is
crossed by random whales, all violently making for one centre.  This lucky
crossing the waterless desert carries a surplus supply of drink for future use
crowbars.  By itself this sufficiently illustrates the obvious fact I drive
crown bone, form those Venetian blinds which have elsewhere been cursorily
crown has been put together for him in this marvellous manner.  But if this
cruisers, the audacity of these corsairs has of late been somewhat repressed;
cruising; therefore, as the Pequod gained more and more upon Java Head, the
cubic-yards of his sperm magazine.  Lying in strange folds, courses, and
cupola, monument, or tower of some sort, is deemed almost indispensable to
curious articles, including canes, umbrella-stocks, and handles to
curious internal structure of the thing operated upon.  Regarding the Sperm
curled brow of the bull has a touch of the grand in it.  Pushing heavy cannon
cutting-spade, to which is attached a rope for hauling it back again.  A
d'ye say, Tashtego; are you the man to snap your spine in two-and-twenty
daintiness of the elephant's trunk.  This delicacy is chiefly evinced in the
darting to and fro across the circles, was nothing to what at last met our
darts are counted as stubble; he laugheth at the shaking of a spear!  This
dashing among the revolving circles like the lone mounted desperado
day old, might have measured some fourteen feet in length, and some six feet
dead bodies of captured whales, with the flesh perfectly healed around them,
deck, ahab abruptly accosted him, without at all heeding what he had in his
deck, let us now have a good long look at the Right Whale's head.  As in
deep, as with so many sprinkling or mistifying pots; and that for some
deep.  Any man may kill a snake, but only a Perseus, a St.  George, a Coffin,
defined than in the crescentic borders of these flukes.  At its utmost
deliberate coolness and equanimity in the direst emergencies, was specially
delirious throb.  As, blind and deaf, the whale plunged forward, as if by sheer
deliverance, or rather, delivery of Tashtego, was successfully accomplished,
demi-gods and heroes, prophets of all sorts, who one way or other have shed
depression in the forehead's middle, which, in man, is Lavater's mark of
depths, rescued the sacred volumes.  Was not this Vishnoo a whaleman, then?
descending for good?  How obvious is it, too, that this necessity for the
desert; even then, the whale always carries a small basin of water on his
detached companies, as in former times, are now frequently met with in
detached white vapors, rising and falling something like the spouts of the
devoutly believe in the historical story of Jonah.  And some three centuries
devoutly worshipping among his thousand concubines.  Granting other whales to
dexterous heave and toss, had wrought a somerset upon the Indian; so that
did indubitably conduct a lamp-feeder as Flask did declare.  As he mounted the
difference: about the head this envelope, though not so thick, is of a
different heads.  To sum up, then; in the Right Whale's there is no great
dignity and sublimity of the Sperm Whale; I account him no common, shallow
diligently seeking to insure a crop of hair from the craft's bald keel.  He
diminish; though that way viewed, its grandeur does not domineer upon you
disbands the harem, and grown to an exemplary, sulky old soul, goes about
disciple Spurzheim failed to throw out some hints touching the phrenological
discolored bunch or protuberance, the size of a bushel, low down on the flank.
discovered.  What other marvels might have been rummaged out of this monstrous
discoveries, by the ship's being unprecedentedly dragged over sideways to the
disengaged and hoisted on deck for the purpose of extracting the ivory teeth,
distinction upon it, I am transported with the reflection that I myself
dive into this matter of whaling, and push my researches up to the very
diver could be seen.  Some hands now jumped into a boat alongside, and pushed
divide it into two quoins, whereof the lower is the bony structure, forming
divided by an internal wall of a thick tendinous substance.  The lower
does he want of them?  No roses, no violets, no Cologne-water in the sea.
doing nothing particular to prove it.  It is moreover declared in his
domineering fortresses which guard the entrances to the Mediterranean, the
don't budge an inch --we're becalmed.  Halloo, here's grass growing in the
down as one of the whaleman's self-derived savageries.  Much the same is it
down the Hindostan coast with a deck load of frightened horses, careens,
down to the human magnitude) among a plate of men's skulls, and you would
down, come down!  yelled the seamen to Daggoo, but
downward strain at the bows, the boats gave a sudden bounce upwards, as a
dozen yards round the waist.  Nevertheless, it cannot be denied, that upon the
draw confidentially close to one of the ladies, with what prodigious fury the
dromedary that of a sudden rose bodily to the surface, and for an instant
drop, he would still remain suspended; the negro having cleared the foul
dropped into the sea, like Niagara's Table-Rock into the whirlpool; the
dropping a boat, her captain was impelled towards us, impatiently standing
dropping and dropping the pirates astern, the Pequod at last shot by the
drugg comes into requisition.  Our boat was furnished with three of them.
drugged-harpoons, were it not that as we advanced into the herd, our whale's
dubious: for though according to the Greek mythologies, that antique
duty was now altogether dispensed with.  They chiefly attended to the shouting
each young Leviathan from his amorous errors.  Now, as the harem of whales is
each, swiftly going round and round, like multiplied spans of horses in a
ears, or mouth; no face; he has none, proper; nothing but that one broad
easily have over-arched the middle ones, and so have gone round on their
east when troubled with the morning.  in the repose of the pasture, the
edging away from that, whose colossal flukes were suspended overhead, while
egotistical sky; in the now unhaunted hill; then be sure, exalted to Jove's
eight whales, an average pod.  Aware of their danger, they were going all
elastic white fibres throughout its whole extent.  The upper part, known as
elephant is preposterous, inasmuch as in that particular the elephant
elephant, I then testified of the whale, pronouncing him the most devout of
elephant, so far as some aspects of the tail of the one and the trunk of the
embodiment of adoration of the gods was never beheld, even in Persia, the
end of the rope, till it is caught and firmly held by a hand on deck.  Then,
end; and not only that, but a herd of remorseless wild pirates and inhuman
endangered prophet swam to, and so was saved from a watery doom.  Poor
endeavor we at last shot into a temporary
enormous cutting tackles, whose hempen combinations, on one side, make
enormous surface of him --in a full grown sperm whale something less than
enough in the good Bishop.  For truly, the Right Whale's mouth would
enterprises in which a careful disorderliness is the true method.  The more I
enters upon the impotent, repentant, admonitory stage of life, forswears,
entire strain now depended, seemed every instant to be on the point of giving
entirely under your chin.  Moreover you observe that the whale has no external
enveloped in the thickest and toughest of ox-hide.  That bravely and uninjured
equality, much less the creatures to which they respectively belong.  For as
escape to another vessel near by, some vessel with a whale for a figure-head;
escape was at present afforded us.  We must watch for a breach in the living
especially if it descend to its mark, the stroke is then simply irresistible.
esteem, the whales salute more hominum.
estimated as piled wood is --by the cord; and all obedient to one volition, as
even as a man who rides a horse is called a horseman?  Perseus, St.  George,
even in the best cruising grounds, you may now sometimes sail for weeks and
even with the water, while the three sterns tilted high in the air.  And the
ever set apart and sanctified the whale.  When Brahma, or the God of Gods,
every day encountered; while you may, then, you must kill all you can.  And
every way innocent and inexperienced; however it may have been, these
evinced his foolish pride of reason --a thing still more reprehensible in
evinced the activity of the other boats, still engaged in drugging the whales
excessive dismay.  But this occasional timidity is characteristic of almost
exercises boasts nothing like it.  It is only indispensable with an inveterate
expansion in the full grown whale, the tail will considerably exceed twenty
expansive monster; when I shall show you some of his more inconsiderable
exposure to the air, after death, it soon begins to concrete; sending forth
extensive herd, so remarkable, occasionally, are these mystic gestures,
extensive herds, sometimes embracing so great a multitude, that it would
extraordinary pressure of water at a great distance below the surface, his
eye upon this strange, crested, comb-like incrustation on the top of the mass
eyes, in themselves, must simultaneously act; but is his brain so much more
eyes.  It is sometimes the custom when fast to a whale more than commonly
facing death?  This Right Whale I take to have been a Stoic; the Sperm
fact, placed before the strict and piercing truth, this whole story will
fairy's arm can transcend it.  Five great motions are peculiar to it.  First,
falling into a cistern ashore; an accident which not seldom happens, and
far-off and undiscernible hills.  Even now, when the boats pulled upon this
fare like that fish, flesh, and fowl idol of the Philistines, Dagon by name;
fashion.  And as those ancient dames moved about gaily, though in the jaws of
fashionables, they are for ever on the move in leisurely search of variety.
fathoms beneath the sunlight.  Not so much thy skill, then, O hunter, as the
fearful of expending more line, though the position was a little ticklish.
features; and since it perhaps
feeding season, having just returned, perhaps, from spending the summer in
feet across.  The entire member seems a dense webbed bed of welded
feet for a good sized whale, you have more than twenty-six feet for the depth
fellow feels when he's going to Davy Jones --all a rush down an endless
felt them in his seat.  The next moment, relieved in a great part from the
female whales are characteristically timid, the young males, or
few are captured having the deep scars of these encounters, --furrowed heads,
fibres and filaments, which passing on either side the loins and running down
fiercely demanding tribute at the point of their spears.  Though by the
figure with the base downwards.  As it passes through the remaining vertebrae
fire or not?  Oh!  see the suds he makes!  cried Flask, dancing up and down
firmament of a forehead, pleated with riddles; dumbly lowering with the doom
fishery, upon whom these spikes fall with impaling force.  But far more
flag which I fling half out to the world.  Apply this spinal branch of
fleetness.  Such unintermitted strainings upon the planted iron must sooner or
flesh from the back; this it is that often torments the Leviathan into soon
flesh perfectly firm about it.  Who had darted that stone lance?  And when?
flight with augmented fleetness.  Further pursuit was useless; but the boats
floating body of a dead whale, both to mark its place on the sea, and also
floating posture of the leviathan the flukes lie considerably below the level
flood had come; they would only answer -- Well, boys, here's the ark!  Now,
fluke-chains, to pry them adrift from the timber-heads; and so low had the
flukes close by.  Riotous and disordered as the universal commotion now was,
flukes, and the lances were darted into him, they were followed by steady
flush and May of life, with all their panting lard about them; even these
followed him, had considerably the start of the Pequod's keels.  There were
for another outlet.  After many similar hair-breadth escapes, we at last
for ever escape.  But no sooner did his harpooneer stand up for the stroke,
for his periodical visits to the upper world.  But he cannot in any degree
for his true brain, you can then see no indications of it, nor feel any.
for questioning the Hebrew story was this: --He had one of those quaint
for the convenience of ships and whales; conspicuous among which are the
for the great head itself, that was doing as well as could be expected.  And
for the purpose of discharging water through the spiracle.  Because the
for the supremacy like elks that warringly interweave their antlers.  Not a
for the ulceration alluded to.  But still more curious was the fact of a
force as to gouge deep grooves in them; while so fearful were the
forehead seem now faded away.  I think his broad brow to be full of a
formed when two hostile currents meet.  His spout was short, slow, and
forming in water.  A large whale's case generally yields about five hundred
fortifications of Quebec.  So like a choice casket is it secreted in him,
forty feet ahead.  Handling the long lance lightly, glancing twice or thrice
forward-slanting spout of the Sperm Whale presents a thick curled bush of
found betokened in his backbone.  I would rather feel your spine than your
free his white-ash, and while, in consequence, Derick's boat was nigh to
freely and fearlessly indulge in all peaceful concernments; yea, serenely
fright.  First, the whales forming the margin of our lake began to crowd a
from a wedge in having its sharp end formed by the steep inclination of one
from afar; then the lake itself began faintly to heave and swell; the
from his head by the air-eddy made by the sudden tossing of a pair of broad
from some mighty fountain, and with half-stifled melancholy gurglings the
from the Pequod's fish-spears!  In that sloping afternoon sunlight, the
from the Shaster, which gives us the dread Vishnoo, one of the three persons
from the circumference of commotion, the direful disorders seemed waning.  So
from the glory of the exploit had St.  George but encountered a crawling
full cranial development.  So that this whole enormous boneless mass is as one
full-freighted vessel is caught by an appointed hand, and quickly emptied
gabled roof of a house.  The ship groaned and gasped.  Many of the ivory
gallons of sperm, though from unavoidable circumstances, considerable of it
game having risen to leeward, he and the other three German boats that soon
gave account of an immense body or herd of Sperm Whales, and there was also
general body, full of strangeness, and unaccountable to his most experienced
general shape the noble Sperm Whale's head may be compared to a Roman
generally the most serious result.  These submerged side blows are so often
generated in him; he swells to a prodigious magnitude; becomes a sort of
genius.  But how?  Genius in the Sperm Whale?  Has the Sperm Whale ever
gigantic galliot-toed shoe.  Two hundred years ago an old Dutch voyager
giving battle to Moby Dick, in the sea he was most known to frequent; and at
glistening white membrane, glossy as bridal satins.  But come out now, and
goaded by it into more than sufferable anguish, the whale now spouting thick
god-dam, --cried the Indian.  Fiercely, but evenly incited by the taunts of
going head out, and sending his spout before him in a continual tormented
gone, and not a single flying-fish yet captured to supply the deficiency;
good time for Starbuck, Stubb, and Flask.  With a shout, they took a mortal
grasp, leaving the rest unobstructed.  Then holding the lance full before
great gods themselves.  That wondrous oriental story is now to be rehearsed
great headland from Bartholomew Diaz, its reputed discoverer, and so make
great necessities that strike the victory to thee!  In man, breathing is
great river Hudson breaks up in Spring, the entire host of whales came
great, wide wake, as though continually unrolling a great wide parchment upon
greater age to the Right Whale than at first glance will seem reasonable.  In
greatest necessity for so doing would seem to be, when in feeding he
greyhounds!  Dog to it!  I tell ye what it is, men --cried Stubb to his crew
ground, because a German exegetist supposes that Jonah must have taken refuge
grounds of the world, previous to descending upon the Line in the Pacific;
growth, are not more than one third of the bulk of an average-sized male.
guides the bucket into the Tun, till it entirely disappears; then giving the
habergeon: he esteemeth iron as straw; the arrow cannot make him flee;
had had, Derick's boat still led the chase, though every moment neared by
had shot by the three German boats last lowered; but from the great start he
had so victoriously gained upon the Malays.  But still driving on in the wake
hammered substance, as I have before said, much heavier than the sea water,
hand, now to that, he yawed in his faltering flight, and still at every
hand-over-hand, down the other part, the Indian drops through the air, till
hand; but in his broken lingo, the German soon evinced his complete
happen, your skin will feverishly smart, from the acridness of the thing so
hard to say.  Only wait a bit, old chap, and I'll give ye a sling for that
harder, and deeper and deeper into the Tun, until some twenty feet of the
harmony, but it often bestows it; and in everything imposingly beautiful,
harpoon as compared with the lance, which in effect become serious drawbacks.
harpoon was found imbedded in his flesh, on the lower part of the bunch
harpoon, and also of a lighter material--pine.  It is furnished with a small
harpooneers that this rapid sounding would soon exhaust the lines, that using
has any other brain than that palpable semblance of one formed by the
has to ram his long pole harder and
have entered the straits, these rascally Asiatics were now in hot pursuit, to
have ever had to do with a whale like their great patron), let them never eye
have him.  With one intent all the combined rival boats were pointed for this
have likewise fallen into Plato's honey head, and sweetly perished there?
have relaxed, leaving him there in that ungainly sort of plight, a reproach
have sighted one grain of soil; her crew having seen no man but floating
have the heart in them to march boldly up to a whale.  Let not the modern
he by loss of blood, that he helplessly rolled away from the wreck he had
he don't sling thee with it, cried Starbuck.  Give way, or the German will
he had sunk.  At this instant, while Daggoo, on the summit of the head, was
he has no gills.  How is this?  Between his ribs and on each side of his spine
he is supplied with a remarkable involved Cretan labyrinth of vermicelli-like
he may be deemed a sort of involuntary whaleman; at any rate the whale caught
he shot by; ye'll be picked up presently --all right --I saw some sharks
he should then go abroad inculcating not what he learned there, but the folly
head in your jolly-boat, your noble conceptions of him are never insulted by
head, as under a blazing sun you will sometimes see a cavity in a rock filled
head.  The invariable moisture of my hair, while plunged in deep thought,
head; and since --as has been elsewhere set forth --the head embraces one third
heads for hours, and never discover that organ.  The ear has no external leaf
health, and swelling with noble aspirations, prematurely cut off in the warm
heard it said, and I do not much doubt it, that if the jet is fairly spouted
hearing?  Not at all. -- Why then do you try to enlarge your mind?  Subtilize
heavenly ray.  And for this I thank God; for all have doubts; many deny;
held, little doubt had they, that chased through these Straits of Sunda,
helter-skelter for the outlets, crowding, trampling, jamming, and
her solemn pauses; in short, as a general lassitude overtakes the sated Turk;
here, that though the harpoon may be pitchpoled in the same way with the
high seat, the great Sperm Whale shall lord it.  Champollion deciphered the
highest heaven.  So in dreams, have I seen majestic Satan thrusting forth his
highly cultured, poetical nation shall lure back to their birth-right, the
him must have seemed a most unusually long dart, ere the last chance would
him not five minutes ago! --then in his old intense whisper -- give way,
him very closely, and time him with your watch, you will find that when
him!  Who struck?  Two whale; one big, one little!  What ails ye, man?
him, and the other in an exactly opposite direction?  If he can, then is it as
him, if he did not the whale.  I claim him for one of our clan.  But, by the
him, seeing that he had but little learning except what he had picked up from
himself in his advancing years, is true of all aged Sperm Whales.  Almost
himself.  So Ahab.  Mark this, too, in the whaler.  While other hulls are
hint to operate as it may with the phrenologists, I would merely assume the
hint.  so long as a man's eyes are open in the light, the act of seeing is
his back a column of two hundred fathoms of ocean!  It must at least equal the
his foreign rivals.  The only thing they feared, was, that from being already
his full hour and more (when at the bottom) without drawing a single
his hammock at night in profound darkness --his last drop of Bremen oil being
his head!  Stand by, men; he stirs, cried Starbuck, as the three lines
his lamp-feeder at the other boats.  The ungracious and ungrateful dog!
his nose.  But then again, what has the whale to say?  Seldom have I known
his own fan-like extremity.  All whaleboats carry certain curious contrivances,
his power in his play.  The broad palms of his tail are flirted high into the
his spiracle alone; and this is on the top of his head.  If I say, that in
his tail; for I have heard of yet another elephant, that when wounded in
his waistband's middle, he levels it at the whale; when, covering him with
history.  You observe that in the ordinary swimming position of the Sperm
hold on the great cabled tackles suspending the head; or whether the place
hold.  She is ballasted with utilities; not altogether with unusable pig-lead
home of the fire worshippers.  As Ptolemy Philopater testified of the African
honorableness and antiquity; and especially when I find so many great
hook or by net could this vast leviathan be caught, when sailing a thousand
horseman on a height.  As marching armies approaching an unfriendly defile in
horses, birds, serpents, and fish; and dwells in detail upon the
houses.
hovered, without finally disappearing.  Levelling his glass at this sight,
how can you certainly tell whether any water falls from it, when, always,
how the lovely Andromeda, the daughter of a king, was tied to a rock on the
however, that in different individuals these rates are different; but in any
huge, humped old bull, which by his comparatively slow progress, as well as
human form, mark what robustness is there.  And whatever they may reveal of
human science, is but a passing fable.  If then, Sir William Jones, who
hunter's lance, the mother's pouring milk and blood rivallingly discolor
hunters.  His motions plainly denoted his extreme exhaustion.  In most land
hypothesize, even if we cannot prove and establish.  My hypothesis is this:
idle whim, but it has always seemed to me, that the extraordinary
if you cannot kill them all at once, you must wing them, so that they can be
ignorance of the White Whale; immediately turning the conversation to his
immediately surrounding the embayed axis of the herd, no possible chance of
immense snuff-box, with a hinge at one end, instead of one side.  If you pry
imparts power to the tail.  To the student of old Roman walls, the middle
imperceptible from without.  Is it not curious, that so vast a being as the
important thing in not pushing their investigations from the cerebellum
impossible, he swam so fast and furious.  What then remained?  Of all the
impregnable, uninjurable wall, and this most buoyant thing within; there
in Hackluyt uses the following elegant language: There are about two hundred
in a prodigious commotion, the water cascading all around him.  And if at
in any other part of the creature.  Though in life it remains perfectly fluid,
in certain directions.  Not so with the whale; one of whose peculiarities it
in depth --reposes the mere handful of this monster's brain.  The brain is at
in general breathe the air which at all times is combined with the element in
in girth.  He was a little frisky; though as yet his body seemed scarce yet
in his conflicts with man, he chiefly and contemptuously uses his tail.  In
in it.  Bethink yourself also of another thing.  When two large, loaded
in its four supplementary stomachs.  The anatomical fact of this labyrinth
in repeated instances have one after the other hurled entire boats with all
in the Fishery, --the more whales the less fish.  Of all the drugged whales
in the Pacific, prefers to drink before the brackish fluid, but yesterday
in the bows instead of the stern.
in the brow is so immensely amplified, that gazing on it, in that full front
in the deep.  And thus, though surrounded by circle upon circle of
in the floating body of a dead whale -- even as the French soldiers in the
in the forehead's wrinkles, you seem to track the antlered thoughts descending
in the godhead of the Hindoos; gives us this divine Vishnoo himself for our
in the spread of his spout-hole there, and from that live punch-bowl quaff
in the teeth, too, of the most untoward and apparently hopeless impediments;
in this way; several tubs had been filled with the fragrant sperm; when all
inability to express it.  At times there are gestures in it, which, though
incessantly going on --one breath only serving for two or three pulsations; so
inches of perpendicular rope were visible at the bows.  Seems it credible
inclined plane is angularly filled up, and almost squared by the enormous
inclined plane!  Hurrah!  this whale carries the everlasting mail!  But the
inclusive of the occasional wide intervals between the revolving outer
incommunicable contemplations, and that vapor --as you will sometimes see it
incompatible with the sacred legend and the ancientest draughts of the scene,
indispensable to Vishnoo before beginning the creation, and which therefore
indomitable, you will yet have reason to know.
indomitableness in the Sperm Whale.  And that the great monster is
inexplicable manner in which he now depresses his head altogether beneath the
inland there i still bathe me in eternal mildness of joy.  Meanwhile, as we
inlayings of her bulwarks and cabins were started from their places, by the
inside of the whale's mouth; another, hogs' bristles; a third old gentleman
instant tore it out and carried it away, dropping the oarsman in the boat's
insult him by saying, that when he so strangely rumbles, he talks through
intelligence.  It is plain, then, that phrenologically the head of this
into a large tub.  Then re-mounting aloft, it again goes through the same
into its eternal blue noon; and as not a single groan or cry of any sort,
into the flukes, insensibly blend with them, and largely contribute to their
into the sea.  Haul in!  Haul in!  cried Starbuck again; he's rising.  The
into two broad, firm, flat palms or flukes, gradually shoaling away to less
into your eyes, it will blind you.  The wisest thing the investigator can do
invaluable contents.  It is this decapitated end of the head, also, which is at
investigated, is there any incongruity in this comparison.  It may be but an
involuntarily confound it with them; and remarking the depressions on one
involuntary; that is, he cannot then help mechanically seeing whatever
involve the complete circumnavigation of all Africa in three days, not to
irradiate vapor.  And so, through all the thick mists of the dim doubts in my
irregular circles, and aimlessly swimming hither and thither, by their short
irresistibleness of that might, to which the most impalpable and destructive
irresolution, which, when the fishermen perceive it in the whale, they say he
is considered to be derived from the still more ancient Hebrew story of Jonah
is gallied.  The compact martial columns in which they had been hitherto
is impossible to square.  In the full-grown creature the skull will measure at
is indisputable; and that the supposition founded upon it is reasonable and
is of so mighty a magnitude, all his proportions are so stately, that the
is only inflicted by the recoil.  If it be made in the unobstructed air,
is over, a stout iron-bound bucket, precisely like a well-bucket, has been
is repeated, the spear returning to its master like a greyhound held in
is so exceedingly small, as to be incapable of protrusion.  If hereafter any
is spilled, leaks, and dribbles away, or is otherwise irrevocably lost in the
is, nevertheless, that the Sperm Whale has no proper olfactories.  But what
is, therefore, in some sort, the outer convex mould of it.  From its relative
is, to have an entire nonvalvular structure of the blood-vessels, so that
it is quite impossible for him, attentively, and completely, to examine any
it on deck.  This particular tongue now before us; at a passing glance I
it remain unwarranted by the event.  Towards noon whales were raised; but so
it should still remain a problem, whether these spoutings are, after all,
it soon resolved itself into what seemed a systematic movement; for having
it the Germans were not the first men to perceive.  A foreign friend once
it up, so as to get it overhead, and expose its rows of teeth, it seems a
it was.  Now, had Tashtego perished in that head, it had been a very precious
it, he steadily depresses the butt-end in his hand, thereby elevating the
it, without being able to drag the firm thing from its place.  But thoughts
it.
it.  Let us now with whatever levers and steam-engines we have at hand, cant
it; but if it comes sideways through the opposing water, then partly owing
its affrighted moisture into the air.  From this last vent no blood yet came,
its hand, was for one swift moment seen hovering over the bulwarks.  The
itself.  We have thee there.  Not at all, but I have ye; for at the time
jaw is afterwards sawn into slabs, and piled away like joists for building
jaw, like the Sperm Whale's.  Nor in the Sperm Whale are there any of those
jet; while his one poor fin beat his side in an agony of fright.  Now to this
jets from the new made wound, which kept continually playing, while the
kitten-like, he plays on the ocean as if it were a hearth.  But still you see
know, has no such provision in him; considering, too, the otherwise
known her fear; but the fear of this vast dumb brute of the sea, was chained
known to the young Orient World, he would have been deified by their
knows how many millions of ages before --the great whales should have been
laborious; coming forth with a choking sort of gush, and spending itself in
lads --such a sog!  such a sogger!  Don't ye love sperm?  There goes three
lake --evinced a wondrous fearlessness and confidence, or else a still
lake, as I have hinted, was to a considerable depth exceedingly transparent;
lamp-feeder and oil can, with some remarks touching his having to turn into
lance, yet it is seldom done; and when done, is still less frequently
lance-head of stone being found in him, not far from the buried iron, the
lance; but fearful of the consequences, for the time refrained from darting
landsman first hears it from the gaunt Nantucketer, he is apt to set it
landsman would have thought, that beneath all that silence and placidity, the
landsmen, though they themselves may have either seen or heard of some one's
last expiring spout.  As when by unseen hands the water is gradually drawn off
later inevitably extract it.  It became imperative to lance the flying whale,
latitude and longitude, you still occasionally meet with their flag in the
latter is entirely and evenly covered over with a membrane, so as to be quite
layer will furnish a curious parallel to the thin course of tiles always
lead-lined chocks of the boats, whence the three
leading wind, was herself in hot chase; how very kind of these tawny
leaping motion to the monster when furiously swimming.  His side-fins only
learned exegetists who have opined that the whale mentioned in the book of
least twenty feet from his apparent forehead in life; it is hidden away
least twenty feet in length.  Unhinge the lower jaw, and the side view of
leaving a narrow Dardanelles between their long lengths.  But by desperate
leaving little but the dense tendinous wall of the well --a double welded,
leg was presented; but well knowing that that was not as it ought to be, and
leviathans before us; when, of a sudden, the voice of Tashtego was heard,
life may be said to pour from him in incessant streams.  Yet so vast is the
lifeless head throbbing and heaving just below the surface of the sea, as if
light the gay bridals and other merry-makings of men, and also to illuminate
like a ship's jib-boom.  This whale is not dead; he is only dispirited; out
like iron or wood.  No, they hold there a large, round wad of tow and cork,
like these troubled very few of the reckless crew; and when, after steadily
likened its shape to that of a shoemaker's last.  And in this same last or
limpid, and odoriferous state.  Nor is this precious substance found unalloyed
line buoyantly rising and spiralling towards the air; so now, Starbuck saw
line, rammed down the bucket into the now collapsed well, meaning that the
lines of stacked bayonets, moved on with redoubled velocity.  Stripped to our
lines, of which, hardly an instant before, not one hand's breadth could have
lion-maned buffaloes of the West have fled before a solitary horseman.
little, and tumble against each other, as if lifted by half spent billows
loaded down with alien stuff, to be transferred to foreign wharves; the
locked in and crushed.  But not a bit daunted, Queequeg steered us manfully;
lodged in the spout-hole fissure, which is countersunk into the summit of the
long coils of the umbilical cord of Madame Leviathan, by which the young cub
long enough and broad enough to shade half Xerxes' army.  Who can tell how
long every boat was a buoy; the sunken whale being suspended a few inches
long, hanging straight down at right-angles with his body, for all the world
look around you afresh.  Seeing all these colonnades of bone so methodically
look at this portentous lower jaw, which seems like the long narrow lid of an
look-outs were repeatedly hailed, and admonished to keep wide awake.  But
lord.  Gently he insinuates his vast bulk among them again and revels there
loudly cheering from the heads of their yet suspended boats.  If the wind only
loudly directing attention to something in our wake.  Corresponding to the
lung-celled honeycombs there may possibly have some hitherto unknown and
luxurious Ottoman, swimming about over the watery world, surroundingly
made; lay panting on his side, impotently flapped with his stumped fin,
magazine; he has, therefore, to be uncommonly heedful, lest a careless,
magnetic wires, the life and death throbs of the whale, so that every oarsman
maiming his gigantic tail-tendon.  It is done by darting a short-handled
make the boat slide bravely.  Queequeg believed strongly in anointing his
make up for their over-cautious delay.  But when the swift Pequod, with a fresh
makes neither believer nor infidel, but makes a man who regards them both
males, or bulls, as they are familiarly designated.  In cavalier attendance
man, cried Stubb, are you ramming home a cartridge there? --Avast!  How
man; it might do well with strawberries.  When overflowing with mutual
manner from the tails of all other sea creatures.  It never wriggles.  In man
marring the bows.  It was his death stroke.  For, by this time, so spent was
marvellous a thing in him, as if a man were able simultaneously to go through
mast-head of my ship during a sunrise that crimsoned sky and sea, I once saw
maternal reticule; where, tail to head, and all ready for the final spring,
may possibly be of no contemptible advantage; considering that oil and water
measure ten inches across, being eight in height, and of a triangular
men's lamp-feeders.  Every one knows the fine story of Perseus and Andromeda;
men, like fifty thousand line-of-battle-ship loads of red-haired devils.  What
men.  Though many of the whales, as has been said, were in violent motion,
mentioned, offer a strong contrast to the harem schools.  For while those
mentioned.  The edges of these bones are fringed with hairy fibres, through
mere riding-whips and rowels to her, that they were.  As with glass under arm,
merry May-day gods of old; and livingly enthrone them again in the now
might be discovered from our low boat that seemed playing up almost from the
might be named, my Lord Whale has no taste for the nursery, however much for
might have carried him round by the way of the Cape of Good Hope.  But not to
might occasion great trouble; -- he had thrust back the leg, and by a
might with some reason assert that this sinking is caused by an uncommon
might; so that in the tail the confluent measureless force of the whole
mind of fastening to an elephant in a tilbury on a plain --makes the
mind, divine intuitions now and then shoot, enkindling my fog with a
minutes past one o'clock P. M.  of this sixteenth day of December, A. D.
miracle.  And so it was.  Besides, to this day, the highly enlightened Turks
mixed with water, then I opine we should be furnished with the reason why his
modern history a liar.  But all these foolish arguments of old Sag-Harbor only
modifications of expression discernible therein.  Nor have Gall and his
moment of time attentively examine two distinct prospects, one on one side of
moment vibrating in concert with peaked flukes.  As it seemed to me at the
monster's run was a brief one.  Giving a sudden gasp, he tumultuously sounded.
monster, to behold him solemnly sailing through a calm tropical sea; his
months together, without being greeted by a single spout; and then be
more buoyant than in life.  But the reason of this is obvious.  Gases are
more forcibly than in beholding any other object in living nature.  For you see
more, and all four boats were diagonically in the whale's immediate wake,
more, his windpipe has no connexion with his mouth.  No, he breathes through
mortal nourishment, be still spiritually feasting upon some unearthly
most exalted potency is.  But if from the comparative dimensions of the
most modifies and finally controls their combined expression; hence it would
most other fish, breeds indifferently at all seasons; after a gestation
most southerly point of all Asia.  In a continuous line from that peninsula
mountain torrent we had slid into a serene valley lake.  Here the storms in the
mountain.  Instantly Starbuck and Queequeg changed places; Starbuck taking
mounts aloft; and without altering his erect posture, runs straight out upon
mouth is buried at least eight feet beneath the surface; and what is still
mouths.  but supposing the invader of domestic bliss to betake himself away at
much like a gas-pipe laid down in a city on one side of a street.  But the
much worn down, but undecayed; nor filled after our artificial fashion.  The
muffins --oh, do, do spring --he's a hundred barreler --don't lose him now
multitude, must have contained at least two or three square miles.  At any
must have contained something in the shape of practical hints to young
must have read the memoirs of Vidocq, and informed himself what sort of a
must involve them.  But the ear of the whale is full as curious as the eye.  If
must run wine to-day!  Would now, it were old Orleans whiskey, or old Ohio,
mystical brow is as that great golden seal affixed by the German emperors to
name of Jungfrau or the Virgin.  His necessities supplied, Derick departed;
natural spout-hole in his head was only at intervals, however rapid, sending
nay, not so much as a ripple or a bubble came up from its depths; what
near him but Nature herself; and her he takes to wife in the wilderness of
near its bottom, so as to scuttle a large hole there; then dropping his
near vicinity of the straits of Sunda; indeed, as most of the ground,
neared them; and the wind now dying away, word was passed to spring to the
neck-vertebra; and in that vertebra the bottom of the spinal canal will
needs have been some other unknown reason in the present case fully to account
nestle here on this bonnet, such an idea will be almost sure to occur to you;
nevertheless, there are not wanting some points of curious similitude; among
next, a loud splash announced that my brave Queequeg had dived to the
nigh, the whale was transferred to her side, and was strongly secured there
no means renounce their claim to more solid tribute.  Time out of mind the
no one point precisely; not one distinct feature is revealed; no nose, eyes,
no proper nose.  And since the nose is the central and most conspicuous of the
noble soul.  I rejoice in my spine, as in the firm audacious staff of that
none?
northwards, over waters known to be frequented here and there by the Sperm
nose; and that what nose he has --his spout hole --is on the top of his head;
nosegays to damsels, and then caressed their zones.  On more accounts than
nostrils and not fetch another for a considerable time.  That is to say, he
not a single jet was descried.  Almost renouncing all thought of falling in
not killed with any sordid intent.  Those were the knightly days of our
not the knights of that honorable company (none of whom, I venture to say,
not this whole head seem to speak of an enormous practical resolution in
notorious Lothario out
now come to separate these two objects, and surround each by a circle of
now quiet, swinging perch overhead; and looking further off from the side,
now sheering off from this monster directly across our route in advance; now
now, I pray you, to that marvellous and --in this particular instance
now?  in this zoned quest, does Ahab touch no land?  does his crew drink air?
objects are before him.  Nevertheless, any one's experience will teach him,
obscured from us.  But at length we perceived that by one of the unimaginable
obsequious homage of lowered top-sails from the endless procession of ships
obstetrics on the run, as you may say.  Yes, it was a running delivery, so
obstinacy of that leviathan in having his spoutings out, as the fishermen
occasionally observed, embracing from twenty to fifty individuals each.  Such
oceans, the Sperm Whales, instead of almost invariably sailing in small
of Sumatra, have sallied out upon the vessels sailing through the straits,
of Sunda divide Sumatra from Java; and standing midway in that vast rampart
of a hollow tree, found such exceeding store of it, that leaning too far
of all elements contributes.  Now, mark.  Unerringly impelling this dead,
of at least fifty square feet.  The compact round body of its root expands
of boats, and ships, and men.  Nor, in profile, does this wondrous brow
of cathedrals; would that make him any longer of sight, or sharper of
of domestic bliss; though do what the Bashaw will, he cannot keep the most
of him? --that's his boiling water.  Oh!  he's all right, is the Yarman.  Go
of his back, they are then completely out of sight beneath the surface; but
of his bed; for, alas!  all fish bed in common.  As ashore, the ladies often
of his general might to regard that mystic part of him as the seat of his
of his head.  This aspect is sublime.  In thought a fine human brow is like the
of his head; it has hypothetically occurred to me, I say, that those mystical
of islands, buttressed by that bold green promontory, known to seamen as
of it.  His title, schoolmaster, would very naturally
of its rear end, which is the high end, you will be
of locks (that open and shut) for the downward retention of air or the
of my being, do I myself still for ever centrally disport in mute calm; and
of not a few of their number.  And who could tell whether, in that congregated
of oil, and has come a-begging.  However curious it may seem for an oil-ship
of pitching his lamp-feeder at the advancing boats, and also his oil-can;
of some dense metropolis, descried of a balmy autumnal morning, by some
of sorts, perhaps; hypochondriac; and so supine, that the hinges of his jaw
of that sort go down, twenty Right Whales do.  This difference in the
of the Indian.  Drawn into the waiting boat, they were quickly brought to
of the Mediterranean coast.  How is that?  But was there no other way for the
of the Sperm Whale, was the lightest and most corky part about him; and yet
of the beasts of the earth which is not infinitely outdone by the madness of
of the east.  But while they freely waive a ceremonial like this, they do by
of the fishery.  For as the swift monster drags you deeper and deeper into
of the headsman when drawing near to his prey, the three mates stood up
of the prophet, was something obscurely in reference to his incarcerated body
of the softest Turkey --the tongue, which is glued, as it were, to the floor of
of the tun, when it is lengthwise hoisted up and down against a ship's side.
of the watery defile in which the ship was then sailing, and bethought him
of the whale, watching these sprinklings and spoutings --that all this should
of the whale.
of the whales, at length they seemed abating their speed; gradually the ship
of the whole length of the creature, then setting that length down at eighty
of vapory spouts, individually curling up into the air, and beheld through a
often hailed the morning with their trunks uplifted in the profoundest
often mistaken for it.  And consequently Derick and all his host were now in
old Monongahela!  Then, Tashtego, lad, I'd have ye hold a canakin to the jet,
old chronicles whales and dragons are strangely jumbled together, and often
old times, there seem to have prevailed the most curious fancies concerning
old times, we find the headwaters of our fraternity in nothing short of the
old-fashioned Bibles, embellished with curious, unscientific plates; one of
on each side of the anus; but the breasts themselves extend upwards from
on the frontier of the host; or possibly carrying on the war within the first
on the whip itself, the hoisters ran him high up to the top of the head,
on this, you would take the head for the trunk of some huge oak, with a
on to it so resolutely, indeed, that when at length the ship would have been
once raise its head above the surface.  But owing to his marked internal
one fish, because not only was he the largest, and therefore the most
one they are alike.  Now, why should the whale thus insist upon having his
one, a pity it is that the whale does not possess this prehensile virtue in
only live by inhaling the disengaged air in the open atmosphere.  Wherefore
only one was captured.  The rest contrived to escape for the time, but only
only the maternal help.  For like certain other omnivorous roving lovers that
only true with respect to a species of the Leviathan (the Right Whale, and
opening; then giving way rapidly, and at the same time earnestly watching
or fish, wriggling is a sign of inferiority.  To the whale, his tail is the
or less anticipated; yet does it present one of the more perilous vicissitudes
or ninetieth bucket came suckingly up --my God!  poor Tashtego --like the twin
or twelve feet in length; the staff is much slighter than that of the
or unspeakable
ordinarily submerged, was plainly revealed.  His eyes, or rather the places
other are concerned, should not tend to place those two opposite organs on an
others, form a vast mole, or rampart, lengthwise connecting Asia with
our calling be it said, that the first whale attacked by our brotherhood was
our order.  Our grand master is still to be named; for like royal kings of
our way whatever whales he could reach by short darts, for there was no time
out from the orthodox pagans of their times, equally doubted the story of
out the whale's spine phrenologically?  For, viewed in this light, the
outer concentric circles, and saw successive pods of whales, eight or ten in
over seem bursting from the marble in the carved Hercules, and its charm
over the sperm whale's head, so that it may lie bottom up; then, ascending
over, it sucked him in, so that he died embalmed.  How many, think ye,
overlap, then sideways recede from each other like wings, leaving a wide
pads of lard diminished and all their bones heavy and rheumatic; then you
paintings of this scene mislead us; for though the creature encountered by
palms of his hands fell off from him, and only the stump or fishy part of him
paralysed as it were, helplessly floated like water-logged dismantled ships on
part of its summit, in phrenological phrase you would say --This man had no
part of the business.  Out of the way, Commodore!  cried one, to a great
particular, the demand has long been on the decline.  It was in Queen Anne's
passage in their rear, and once more expand in comparative security upon the
pearl-colored membrane, like the line of a fine pelisse, forming the inner
peering into it, and putting his face in it.  You cannot go with your pitcher
pen-knife, and cut the big chains.  Knife?  Aye, aye, cried Queequeg, and
perceived that the front of the Sperm Whale's head is a dead, blind wall,
performing his agile
perhaps the grandest sight to be seen in all animated nature.  Out of the
perhaps with the double view of retarding his rivals' way, and at the same
peril of the thing, it is to be doubted whether this course is always the
periodical dissolutions, he gave birth to Vishnoo, to preside over the work;
perishing; smothered in the very whitest and daintiest of fragrant
philanthropists to assist in speeding her on to her own chosen pursuit, --
phrase it.  This is what I mean.  If unmolested, upon rising to the surface,
phrenology to the Sperm Whale.  His cranial cavity is continuous with the first
physiognomical view to be had of the Sperm Whale, is that of the full front
pictures, in which his idea has been most successfully embodied; these
pictures, so destitute as they are of all brawniness, hint nothing of any
pieces for the honor of old Gay-head?  What d'ye say?  I say, pull like
piratical hawks.  But the bird has a voice, and with plaintive cries will make
piratical proas of the Malays, lurking among the low shaded coves and islets
pitchpoling comes into play.  Look now at Stubb; a man who from his humorous,
pitiable to see.  but pity there was none.  For all his old age, and his one
pitiable; while still, in his amazing bulk, portcullis jaw, and omnipotent
pity, now, that this unfortunate whale should be hare-lipped.  The fissure is
plain things the knottiest of all.  And as for this whale spout, you might
plain; even so did this vast fleet of whales now seem hurrying forward
plebeianised --so to speak --in the New World.
point of view.  If you stand on its summit and look at these two f-shaped
point till the weapon stands fairly balanced upon his palm, fifteen feet in
pointed it out to me, in the skeleton of a foe he had slain, and with the
pole have gone down.  Now, the people of the Pequod had been baling some time
ponderous and profound.  And I am convinced that from the heads of all
ponderous profound beings, such as Plato, Pyrrho, the Devil, Jupiter, Dante,
poor Tash fell in, the case had been nearly emptied of its lighter contents,
pout, by carpenter's measurement, about twenty feet long and five feet deep;
power, but the mere negative, feminine one of submission and endurance,
powerful and alert, to seek to hamstring him, as it were, by sundering or
prairie-like placidity, born of a speculative indifference as to death.
precipitancy; a disordered flight, as of Cleopatra's barges from Actium.
precisely the case with the whale, who systematically lives, by intervals,
prehensile power, I should straightway bethink me of Darmonodes' elephant
previous place I have described to you how the blubber wraps the body of the
principle, I do not think I shall err; though I may possibly use some
profession, when we only bore arms to succor the distressed, and not to fill
profound darkness; then, in order to see one of them, in such a manner as to
profounder and more subtle meanings, how may unlettered Ishmael hope to read
proudly, occasionally backing the after oarsman with an exhilarating cry of,
provincials then?  What befel the weakling youth lifting the dread goddess's
prow of his canoe.  Now, I consider that the phrenologists have omitted an
putting one foot into it, so as the better to secure his slippery hand-hold
pyramidical silence.  And this reminds me that had the great Sperm Whale been
quadruped's spine, you will be struck with the resemblance of its vertebrae
qualified for a pioneer, in the application of these two semi-sciences to the
qualified to excel in pitchpoling.  Look at him; he stands upright in the
quantity of blood in him, and so distant and numerous its interior fountains,
queer adventure of the Gay-Header's will be sure to seem incredible to some
question returns whether this gas-pipe is also a water-pipe; in other words,
quite a wilderness of ropes in that quarter.  Thus much being said, attend
race, had not a righteous judgment descended upon him in a crab which caught
rafted off in casks, from the Peruvian or Indian streams.  Hence it is, that,
raises our conceit of the mighty, misty
ranged about, would you not think you were inside the great Haarlem organ,
rapidly and steadily swimming, were now broken up in one measureless rout;
rarely achieved by the best harpooneers of the present day; inasmuch as this
rate --though indeed such a test at such a time might be deceptive --spoutings
read in thirty languages, could not read the simplest peasant's face, in its
really water, or nothing but vapor --this is surely a noteworthy thing.  Let
rear and covering the flight of his ladies.  In truth, this gentleman is a
reason for his want of faith.  It was this, if I remember right: Jonah was
reasoning on the subject?  Speak out!  You have seen him spout; then declare
received in the fishery, that they are accounted mere child's play.  Some one
receives the boom-like lower jaw; you observe that the mouth is entirely
reciprocating bucket in a veritable well, dropped head-foremost down into
recovered from that irksome position it had so lately occupied in the
regular ridge-pole there; while these ribbed, arched, hairy sides, present us
remained.  Thus, then, one of our own noble stamp, even a whaleman, is the
reminiscence; --even so did the young of these whales seem looking up towards
remorselessly dashing each other to death.  Best, therefore, withhold
repeated bloody chastisements they have received at the hands of European
replenished with the most excellent of the wines of the Rhenish valleys, so
reptile of the land, instead of doing battle with the great monster of the
rescue.  One packed rush was made to the side, and every eye counted every
respects.  While yet some distance from the Pequod, she rounded to, and
retreated, but collectively remained in one place.  As is customary in those
revelled in dalliance and delight.  But even so, amid the tornadoed Atlantic
richness that coating could not possibly have compared with the silken
riding-whips.  With a long, weary hoist the jaw is dragged on board, as if it
right.  While the ear of the former has an external opening, that of the
rim of the horizon.  I mention this circumstance, because, as if the cows and
ring; and so closely shoulder to shoulder, that a Titanic circus-rider might
ripple, as moment followed moment, and no sign of either the sinker or the
rising again to meet the sharp lance of his foes.  Yet not to speak of the
roaring glens between the outermost whales, were heard but not felt.  In this
rocket.  Almost in the same instant, with a thunder-boom, the enormous mass
rope called a warp, of considerable length, by which it can be hauled back to
rope; so that when the body has gone down, they know where to look for it
ropes went straight down into the blue --the gunwales of the bows were almost
round until the deep cistern will yield no more.  Towards the end, Tashtego
round you than you can possibly chase at one time.  But sperm whales are not
roundabout, was generally recognised by the fishermen as an excellent spot for
running away with us like light, steered straight for the heart of the herd.
running whale; its grand fact and feature is the wonderful distance to which
sailing down the Peruvian coast, when earthquakes caused the beach to gape.
saith the Shaster, resolved to recreate the world after one of its
salvation was cheaply purchased by the loss of Queequeg's hat, who, while
same deficiency which in the sculptured Jove were hideous, in him is no
sanctum sanctorum of the whale.  Only one sweeter end can readily be recalled
say, the skin peeled off from his cheek and arm.  Wherefore, among whalemen,
scenes, it is all in all what mood you are in; if in the Dantean, the devils
sea in a calm, with his elevated hump sun-dried as a dromedary's in the
sea, he carries a surplus stock of vitality in him, just as the camel
sea, owing to the body's immensely increasing tendency to sink.  However,
sea-coast, and as Leviathan was in the very act of carrying her off,
sea-horse; bearing all this in mind, it will not appear altogether
sea; and if he feel but a sailor's whisker, woe to that sailor, whiskers and
seamen like themselves.  So that did you carry them the news that another
seas, you find him unbent from the vast corpulence of his dignity, and
second thoughts, the Right Whale is toothless.  Another reason which
secrets of his belly; lay like a log, and died.  It was most piteous, that
secrets.  The schools composing none but young and vigorous males, previously
seem derived from the name bestowed upon the harem itself, but some have
seem that its entire absence, as an external appendage, must very largely
seemed as a Roman triumphal arch.  When Angelo paints even God the Father in
seemed divulged to us in this enchanted pond.  We saw young Leviathan amours
seemed going mad with consternation.  In all directions expanding in vast
seemed still tethered to its dam.  Not seldom in the rapid vicissitudes of the
seemed to be working in obedience to some particular presentiment.  Nor did
seemed to have egress at his other buried extremity, causing the waters
seems an additional argument for the above supposition.  And how nobly it
seizing the carpenter's heavy hatchet, he leaned out of a porthole, and
self-esteem, and no veneration.  And by those negations, considered along with
semicircle, embracing one half of the level horizon, a continuous chain of
sense of smell seems obliterated in him; for the only thing about him that at
serve to steer by.  Second: It is a little significant, that while one sperm
set sail.  Akin to the adventure of Perseus and Andromeda --indeed, by some
settle this matter with yourself, or for ever remain an infidel as to one of
seventh or Sunday of his time.  It has been said that the whale only breathes
seventy times, that is, respires seventy breaths; then whenever he rises
severest pointed harpoon, the sharpest lance darted by the strongest human
shadows that the three boats sent down beneath the surface, must have been
sharp cracking noise was heard; and to the unspeakable horror of all, one of
ship mobbed by ice-isles in a tempest, and striving to steer through their
shirts and drawers, we sprang to the white-ash,
shoe, that old woman of the nursery tale, with the swarming brood, might
shook as if smitten by an iceberg.  The one remaining hook, upon which the
short-handled sharp spade being sent up to him, he diligently searches for
should be enrolled in the most noble order of St.  George.  And therefore, let
should follow the prophets.  For with the strength of a thousand thighs in his
should say it was a six-barreler; that is, it will yield you about that
side, instead of the mutual tapering of both sides.
sight.  floating on their sides, the mothers also seemed quietly eyeing us.
sights are seen, my lord whale keeps a wary eye on his interesting family.
significantly call it, was untouched.  As the boats now more closely
silence.  The chance comparison in this chapter, between the whale and the
sinews; but cut into it, and you find that three distinct strata compose it:
singular magnificence saluted us.  But here be it premised, that owing to the
sinking in this substance was in the present instance materially counteracted
situation then, I should call this high hump the organ of firmness or
skeleton was carried to Italy in triumph.  What seems most singular and
skilful leash.  The agonized whale goes into his flurry; the tow-line is
skull, whoever you are.  A thin joist of a spine never yet upheld a full and
slackened, and the pitchpoler dropping astern, folds his hands, and mutely
sleek, produced
slewed round his boat and made after the leviathan lamp-feeders.  Now, the
slight contact with the outer, vapory shreds of the jet, which will often
slipperiness of the curb of the Sperm Whale's well.  But, peradventure, it may
sloping part of the front of the head, is there the slightest vestige of bone;
slowly descending head, Queequeg with his keen sword had made side lunges
slowness moves his immense flukes from side to side upon the surface of the
small ice-field will, when a dense herd of white bears are scared from it
small tame cows and calves; the women and children of this routed host.  Now,
smaller whales --now and then visiting our becalmed boat from the margin of the
so disposed, momentarily neared him.  In that fine, loose, chivalrous attitude
so nigh to his mark, he would be enabled to dart his iron before they could
so often will insist upon obtruding even when beholding the mightiest royal
so.  In profile, you plainly perceive that horizontal, semi-crescentic
sole means of propulsion.  Scroll-wise coiled forwards beneath the body, and
some Nantucketers rather distrust this historical story of Jonah and the
some unexaggerated, intelligent estimate of whatever battering-ram power may
some vast walled empire: and considering the inexhaustible wealth of spices,
soon as the ship sailed down to them, they turned and fled with swift
soundings, or near shores; all other whales sometimes are.  He is both
speak of the Tigris waters, near the site of Nineveh, being too shallow for
speak of the passage through the whole length of the Mediterranean, and
specialities and concentrations of potency everywhere lurking in this
species is no doubt imputable in no small degree to the greater quantity of
specific gravity in the fish so sinking, consequent upon this absence of
spermaceti; coffined, hearsed, and tombed in the secret inner chamber and
spigot out of him!  cries Stubb. 'Tis July's immortal Fourth; all fountains
spinal theory for a moment, in reference to the sperm whale's hump.  This
spiracles, the apertures in its sounding-board.  Then, again, if you fix your
spout is so similar to the Sperm Whale's, that by unskilful fishermen it is
spout, whether with some scientific object in view, or otherwise, I cannot
spout-holes, you would take the whole head for an enormous bass-viol, and
spouting all over the sea, and sprinkling and mistifying the gardens of the
spoutings out, unless it be to replenish his reservoir of air, ere
spray-column lowers and lowers to the ground --so the last long dying spout
spring --slap-jacks and quohogs for supper, you know, my lads --baked clams and
spring-head of it, so much the more am I impressed with its great
square feet --the pressure of the water is immense.  We all know what an
squares of wood of equal size are stoutly clenched together, so that they
staggeringly running off, fettered by the enormous sidelong resistance of the
stand for each other.  Thou art as a lion of the waters, and as a dragon of
standing in the bows to prick the fugitive whales, had his hat taken clean
stands in much the same respect to the whale that a dog does to the elephant;
start forwards, and slantingly ranged up on the German's quarter.  An instant
started with --that the Sperm Whale and the Right Whale have almost entirely
stay so!  Spring, men -- pull, men; never mind their backs --scrape them!
steel to iron, began slashing at the largest fluke-chains.  But a few strokes,
still in bold, hopeful chase.  Oh!  many are the Fin-Backs, and many are the
still lingered in their wake to pick up what drugged whales might be dropped
still more, for many feet after emerging from the brain's cavity, the spinal
stomach-ache, I'm afraid.  Lord, think of having half an acre of stomach-ache!
stopped the leaks for the time.  It had been next to impossible to dart these
story; for in the ancient Joppa, now Jaffa, on the Syrian coast, in one of
straight perpendicular
straits of Sunda and Malacca.  By the straits of Sunda, chiefly, vessels
stranger world met our eyes as we gazed over the side.  For, suspended in
stream.
strength has much to do with the magic.  Take away the tied tendons that all
stretch the long islands of Sumatra, Java, Bally, and Timor; which, with many
stricken whale, that from the tub has reeled out hundreds of fathoms of rope;
striking at a boat, he swiftly curves away his flukes from it, and the blow
struck by its resemblance to the human skull, beheld in the same situation,
structure which gives him regular lungs, like a human being's, the whale can
studded oriental archipelagoes.  This rampart is pierced by several sally-ports
subdivided part, called the junk, is one immense honeycomb of oil, formed by
submarine bridal-chambers and nurseries vanished; in more and more
substance which so impregnably invests all that apparent effeminacy.  In some
subtlest secrets of the seas
subtleties, to which the veteran whaleman is so often forced, none exceed
successful, on account of the greater weight and inferior length of the
such a thing really happens; and in the present case Captain Derick De Deer
such fancy as the above seemed his.  And when he glanced upon the green walls
such great bodies are at times encountered, yet,
such times you should think that you really perceived drops of moisture in
suddenly relieved hull rolled away from it, to far down her glittering copper;
suddenly saluted by what sometimes seems thousands on thousands.  Broad on
suddenly vibrated in the water, distinctly conducting upwards to them, as by
suggestively important in this story, is this: it was from Joppa that Jonah
sun has raced within his fiery ring, and needs no sustenance but what's in
superfluous scientific words.  Assume it, and it follows that if all the
superincumbent mass of the junk and sperm.  At the high end the skull forms a
supposed to be indirectly derived from it --is that famous story of St.  George
surface of his head, and a little to one side; this curious canal is very
surface of the Sperm Whale's case.  It will have been seen that the Heidelburgh
surface, and anon swims with it high elevated out of the water; considering
surface, and there he cannot spout even if he would.  Besides, if you regard
surmised that the man who first thus entitled this sort of Ottoman whale,
surrounded him, the whole upper part of his form, with much of it that is
swallowed by the whale in the Mediterranean Sea, and after three days he was
swallowed down and thrown up by a whale; still, whether that strictly makes a
swift whales had been gaining upon the ship, than to rejoice that the ship
swiftly glided into what had just been one of the outer circles, but now
swims behind it all a mass of tremendous life, only to be adequately
sword of him that layeth at him cannot hold, the spear, the dart, nor the
sword, had thrust his long arm far inwards and upwards, and so hauled out our
sword, in all its
symbols; that the whale, indeed, by these methods intelligently conversed
symptoms of sinking with all its treasures unrifled.  Immediately, by
tail, Leviathan had run his head under the mountains of the sea, to hide him
tail, there was enough to appal the stoutest man who so pitied.  Seeing now
takes the jam which would have snapped all their oaken handspikes and iron
tapped.
teachings.  Such is the subtle elasticity of the organ I treat of, that
technically called a clean one (that is, an empty one), well deserving the
technically known as the schoolmaster.  It is therefore not in strict
temporarily lodged in some part of his mouth.  And this seems reasonable
terrible is it to behold, when fathoms down in the sea, you see some sulky
terrific portcullis; and such, alas!  it proves to many a poor wight in the
than a ton; from this incumbrance the Sperm Whale is wholly free.  But there
than all three tigers --Queequeg, Tashtego, Daggoo -- instinctively sprang to
than an inch in thickness.  At the crotch or junction, these flukes slightly
that I have heard hunters who have declared them akin to Free-Mason signs and
that I have known some whalemen who peremptorily deny that the Sperm Whale
that but a very few moments more would give the Pequod's boats the advantage,
that by three such thin threads the great Leviathan was suspended like the big
that fine manoeuvre with the lance called pitchpoling.  Small sword, or broad
that hard white whalebone with which the fishermen fashion all sorts of
that he towed; he had also run away with the cutting-spade in him; and while
that moment seized with some momentous idea; whereas it was only the poor
that of a Fin-Back, belonging to the species of uncapturable whales,
that oriental sea are enriched, it seems a significant provision of nature,
that so frequented the flower-market, and with low salutations presented
that spite of all their gallantry, he would have proved the victor in this
that such treasures, by the very formation of the land, should at least bear
that the spout is nothing but mist.  And besides other reasons, to this
that this would be the case, and occasionally with a deriding gesture shook
that though he can take in an undiscriminating sweep of things at one glance,
that through that gate lay the route to his vengeance, and beheld, how that
that valiant whaleman of old is vaguely represented of a griffin-like shape,
that whatever other business he has to attend to, waking or sleeping,
that when at last the jerking harpoon drew out, and the towing whale sideways
that.  When by chance these precious parts in a nursing whale are cut by the
the Cape of Good Hope was advanced as a signal magnification of the general
the Case, may be regarded as the great Heidelburgh Tun of the Sperm Whale.
the Case.  But to comprehend it aright, you must know something of the
the German, the Pequod's three boats now began ranging almost abreast; and,
the Northern seas, and so cheating summer of all unpleasant weariness and
the Pagan temples, there stood for many ages the vast skeleton of a whale,
the Pequod pressed after them; the harpooneers handling their weapons, and
the Shore Whaling, on soundings, among the Bays of New Zealand, when a Right
the Southern fishers the bonnet of the Right Whale; fixing your eyes solely
the Sperm Whale will continue there for a period of time exactly uniform with
the Sperm Whale, become notified of the three keels that were after them,
the affirmative fact of his prodigious bulk and power, you can best form to
the air.  He minds you somewhat of a juggler, balancing a long staff on his
the animal ridden by St.  George might have been only a large seal, or
the appearance, however ineffectual, of being guarded from the all-grasping
the awful Chaldee of the Sperm Whale's brow?  I but put that brow before you.
the axles of carriages are anointed; and for much the same purpose, some
the battle is depicted on land and the saint on horseback, yet considering
the blade of his midship oarsman.  While this clumsy lubber was striving to
the blinding vapor cleared away, when a naked figure with a boarding-sword in
the body is now completely separated from it, with a lantern we might descend
the bower; and so, being a great traveller, he leaves his anonymous babies
the bucket within grasp of the Indian, to whom another person has reached up
the bumps on the head of this Leviathan; this is a thing which no
the canal tapers in size, but for a considerable distance remains of large
the cause of his devious wake in the unnatural stump of his starboard fin.
the coils of the harpoon-line round his tail, the cutting-spade itself had
the completion of the scene; so no face can be physiognomically in keeping
the cranium and jaws, and the upper an unctuous mass wholly free from bones;
the crazed creatures to and fro rushing about us; our beset boat was like a
the creature's age, as the age of an oak by its circular rings.  Though the
the creature?  this he?  Oh!  that unfulfilments
the crossing and re-crossing, into ten thousand infiltrated cells, of tough
the customary cheering cry was heard from aloft, and ere long a spectacle of
the deck, is there held by two or three alert hands.  These last now hoist
the deck; but Tashtego was long in coming to, and Queequeg did not look very
the demigod then, why not the prophet?
the demonstrations of two distinct problems in Euclid.  Nor, strictly
the divine love in the Son, the soft, curled, hermaphroditical Italian
the fight, curved round his trunk and extracted the dart.  Fourth: Stealing
the first rush of the harem's lord, then is it very diverting to watch that
the frantic shoal, you bid adieu to circumspect life and only exist in a
the free end of the rope attached to that weapon, had permanently caught in
the great ignorance of those times, when the true form of the whale was
the hand after darting.  But before going further, it is important to mention
the harpoon line; and in the extraordinary agony of the wound, he was now
the herd, was owing to a cause which at first the intervening distance
the historical story of Jonah and the whale in the preceding chapter.  Now
the jaw is lashed down to ringbolts, and a tackle being rigged from aloft,
the knot-holes of the noblest oaks when prostrate, so from the points which
the ladies their busks and other stiffening contrivances.  But in this
the lens of Herschel's great telescope; and his ears capacious as the porches
the light wreath of vapor from the spiracle at his other extremity, you would
the living stuff!  Again and again to such gamesome talk, the dexterous dart
the long lance is accurately darted from a violently rocking, jerking boat,
the measureless crush and crash of the sperm whale's ponderous flukes, which
the mightiest elephant is but a terrier to Leviathan, so, compared with
the most appalling,
the most delicate oil; yet, you are now to be apprised of the nature of the
the mountains, accelerate their march, all eagerness to place that perilous
the mouth.  It is very fat and tender, and apt to tear in pieces in hoisting
the necessity
the ordinary periods of respiration.  But why pester one with all this
the outer end of the lower jaw.  Sometimes these tufts impart a rather
the outskirts of the shoal.  In about three minutes' time, Queequeg's harpoon
the overhanging main-yard-arm, to the part where it exactly projects over the
the palms of his flukes, still freshly retained the plaited crumpled
the pasture by three fierce wolves, they could not possibly have evinced such
the pod in advance, seemed questionable; for it is not customary for such
the proper place to begin breaking into the Tun.  In this business he proceeds
the reflection that he has a nose to be pulled.  A pestilent conceit, which
the sailors do?  They do not suspend between them, at the point of coming
the same course with fencing and boxing, riding and rowing.  I know that this
the sea for rods.  The milk is very sweet and rich; it has been tasted by
the sea, saith ezekiel; hereby, plainly meaning a whale; in truth, some
the sea.  Full in this rapid wake, and many fathoms in the rear, swam a
the sea.  Had these leviathans been but a flock of simple sheep, pursued over
the small fish, when open-mouthed he goes through the seas of brit in feeding
the smallest insect.  So that when I shall hereafter detail to you all the
the soft eye of the antelope, and the lovely plumage of the bird that never
the solemn churches that preach unconditional inoffensiveness by all to all.
the spot where an entrance is subsequently forced into the spermaceti
the spout is deemed poisonous; they try to evade it.  Another thing; I have
the spout, how do you know that they are not merely condensed from its vapor;
the stern.  Oars!  Oars!  he intensely whispered, seizing the helm -- gripe
the sun and the sea.  I say it only shows his foolish, impious pride, and
the tail; for in this respect there is a delicacy in it only equalled by the
the timber-heads to which the fluke-chains and cables were fastened, that it
the tun of the whale contains by far the most precious of all his oily
the two enormous hooks suspending the head tore out, and with a vast
the unborn whale lies bent like a Tartar's bow.  The delicate side-fins, and
the unobstructed elasticity of its envelop; considering the unique interior
the varieties of that order), concerning which the fishermen have this saying,
the vast host would only deploy into the Oriental seas to witness the capture
the whale's eyes had once occupied, now protruded blind bulbs, horribly
the whale, as you may say; even so, in a shower, with the like
the whaleman's can head off like that?
their decrees.  It signifies God: done this day by my hand.  But in most
their feet, and standing in a diagonal row, simultaneously pointed their
their glorying crews all over with showers of gore, capsizing Flask's boat and
their most appalling beauty from it.  Real strength never impairs beauty or
their oars and crews into the air, very much as an Indian juggler tosses his
their unctuousness is small.  As for the sons and the daughters they beget,
them.  But the sight of the enraged drugged whales now and then blindly
themselves seem clear, eternal, tideless mountain lakes; and all above them
then I have another idea for you.  If you attentively regard almost any
then attached to the middle of this block, and the other end of the line
then given the probable cause inducing those vast aggregations.  Now, though
then over and over slowly revolved like a waning world; turned up the white
then rapidly sprung backwards, it is this which gives that singular darting,
then, it seems to me, is to let this deadly spout alone.  Still, we can
there are certain curious marks, curves, hollows, and ridges, whereby some
there to drink, as the Highland hunters track the snow prints of the deer.
there was a terrible tumult.  Looking over the side, they saw the before
there, a curious involved worming and undulation in the atmosphere over my
there?  It is the same he died with, only some of the longer wrinkles in the
these
these blinds.  One voyager in Purchas calls them the wondrous whiskers
these is the spout.  It is well known that the elephant will often draw up
they came snuffling round us, right up to our gunwales, and touching them;
they drag out these teeth, as Michigan oxen drag stumps of old oaks out of
they were now at last under the influence of that strange perplexity of inert
they would well grace the hand of man, remain wholly inexplicable.  In an
thick spoutings, they plainly betrayed their distraction of panic.  This
thickening clusters.  Yes, the long calm was departing.  A low advancing hum
thing for salamander giants only to encounter; how small the chances for the
things earthly, and intuitions of some things heavenly; this combination
think that that was the smoke from the touch-hole.  Fifth: As in the ordinary
third of his entire length from the front.  Wherefore, you must now have
thirty feet of his body are tossed erect in the air, and so remain vibrating
this great Tun of Heidelburgh, and with a horrible oily gurgling, went
this mighty monster is actually a diademed king of the sea, whose green
this skull is as the side view of a moderately inclined plane resting
this terrific object seemed to recall the whole herd from their stationary
this visual matter as touching the Leviathan.  But I must be content with a
those circles, the entire area at this juncture, embraced by the whole
those watery vaults, floated the forms of the nursing mothers of the whales,
thou fill his skin with barbed irons?  or his head with fish-spears?  The
thou makest it sink in an element of a far greater specific gravity than
though in some few known instances giving birth to an Esau and Jacob: -- a
though the green palmy cliffs of the land soon loomed on the starboard bow,
thoughtlessness, do we nowadays fly under the same jaws for protection; the
thoughts.  For, d'ye see, rainbows do not visit the clear air; they only
thousand dollars, men! --a bank! --a whole bank!  The bank of England! --Oh, do,
threatened to swamp us.  Hard down with your tail, there!  cried a second
three hundred on a side, which depending from the upper part of the head or
through an ear which is smaller than a hare's?  But if his eyes were broad as
through his spiracle, and this made the sight of him unspeakably
through his spout-hole; if it could truthfully be added that his spouts are
through that same gate he was now both chasing and being chased to his deadly
through the Isthmus of Darien, and mixed the Atlantic with the Pacific, you
through the spinal canal.  For I believe that much of a man's character will be
through the straits; gradually contracting the wings of their semicircle,
throughout on a level base.  But in life --as we have elsewhere seen --this
thus lay entranced, the occasional sudden frantic spectacles in the distance
thus, through the courage and great skill in obstetrics of Queequeg, the
ticklish business of securing what you can.  I know not with what fine and
time economically accelerating his own by the momentary impetus of the
time of the Commonwealth.  Thus, some of the best and furthest-descended
time that the bone was in its glory, the farthingale being then all the
time, such a grand
time.  In the central blinds of bone, as they stand in their natural order,
time; never mind if they lie side by side and touch each other.  But if you
to a strung necklace of dwarfed skulls, all bearing rudimental resemblance
to all his tribe, who must, no doubt, imprecate lock-jaws upon him.  In most
to another, which, close to our gunwale, seemed calmly cooling himself with
to be borrowing oil on the whale-ground, and however much it may invertedly
to be taken, as will hereafter be seen, by some other craft than the Pequod.
to drawing teeth.  With a keen cutting-spade, Queequeg lances the gums; then
to hold on; till at last --owing to the perpendicular strain from the
to make good his regular allowance of air.  And not till those seventy breaths
to make long ones.  Nor were the oarsmen quite idle, though their wonted
to the light buoyancy of the whaleboat, and the elasticity of its materials,
to the skull proper.  It is a German conceit, that the vertebrae are
to their ears, this important difference is to be observed between the sperm
to this fountain and fill it, and bring it away.  For even when coming into
to this great head it begins to assume different aspects, according to your
to watch this harem and its lord in their indolent ramblings.  Like
together; for one will soon sink, unrecorded, in the sea; the other will not
tongue on each side of his mouth.  As every one knows, these same hogs'
took more than customary pains in that occupation; crawling under its bottom,
tormented colossal claw from the flame Baltic of Hell.  But in gazing at such
torn shreds, followed by strange subterranean commotions in him, which
tossed bow of the flying boat; wrapt in fleecy foam, the towing whale is
tossing the keen spade about him, wounding and murdering his own comrades.
touching at a score of ports, the whale-ship, in all that interval, may not
touching it.  And I know one, who coming into still closer contact with the
touching the precise nature of the whale spout.  It will not do for him to be
towards the sky his one beating fin.  So have I seen a bird with clipped wing,
towing drugg.  They were cramped like malefactors with the chain and ball.
treats of the various faces of men, but also attentively studies the faces of
trowsers we are much better entitled to st.  george's decoration than they.
true, seems the more cogent to me, when I consider the otherwise inexplicable
tumbling upon their inner centre, as if to pile themselves up in one common
tutelary guardian of England; and by good rights, we harpooneers of Nantucket
twenty line-of-battle ships, with all their guns, and stores, and men on
twin-jets of the Right Whale, which, dividing at top, falls over in two
two things --however large or however small --at one and the same instant of
umbrella being a tent spread over the same bone.  But now forget all about
unawares upon the whale in the fancied security of the middle of solitary
under extreme headway.  Steel and wood included, the entire spear is some ten
under the head, much in the same way, indeed, as though your own mouth were
understand his head?  much more, how comprehend his face, when face he has
undulates through a Titanism of power.  On the contrary, those motions derive
universally, a lone whale --as a solitary Leviathan is called --proves an
unknown to artists; and considering that as in Perseus' case, St.  George's
unmolested, there is an undeviating rhyme between the periods of his jets and
unnatural dislocation.  In
unprincipled young rakes like him are to be permitted to invade the sanctity
unsuspected connexion with the outer air, so as to be susceptible to
untimely stroke should invade the sanctuary and wastingly let out its
unwearied activity with which of late they have been hunted over all four
up and enchanted in him; he had no voice, save that choking respiration
up mountain defiles, the elephant's brow is majestic.  Human or animal, the
up the coil of the warp in one hand, so as to secure its free end in his
up with rain.  Nor is it at all prudent for the hunter to be over curious
upheld, the body would at once sink to the bottom.  It so chanced that almost
upon first cutting into him with the spade, the entire length of a corroded
upon the school of females, you invariably see a male of full grown magnitude,
upward exclusion of water, therefore the whale has no voice; unless you
us our coffee, is the Yarman; don't you see that big tin can there alongside
us up.  Keeping at the centre of the lake, we were occasionally visited by
us, but not at us, as if we were but a bit of Gulf-weed in their new-born
us, then, look at this matter, along with some interesting items contingent.
utmost monster of the seas was writhing and wrenching in agony!  Not eight
vacancy between.  In no living thing are the lines of beauty more exquisitely
vacillations of movement displayed by some whales when beset by three or four
vain handspikes and crows were brought to bear upon the immovable
valiant chase of this unnearable brute.  The Virgin crowding all sail, made
valuable whale, but he was nearest to them, and the other whales were going
vanished; then, with the tapering force of his parting momentum, we glided
vapor --no absolute certainty can as yet be arrived at on this head.  Sure it
vast plaited forehead forms innumerable strange devices for the emblematical
vast, mild head overhung by a canopy of vapor, engendered by his
veil at Sais?
venerable leviathans to be at all social.  Nevertheless, he stuck to their
versions of the Bible use that word itself.  Besides, it would much subtract
vertebrae of which he was inlaying, in a sort of basso-relievo, the beaked
very comfortably be lodged, she and all her progeny.  But as you come nearer
very slowly and deliberately indeed, affording Queequeg a fair chance for
vessels, which vessels, when he quits the surface, are completely distended
vessels, which, in those waters, have been remorselessly boarded and pillaged.
vibration the enormous mass sideways swung, till the drunk ship reeled and
view, you feel the Deity and the dread powers
vintages; namely, the highly-prized spermaceti, in its absolutely pure,
vivid green Cockatoo Point on the Sumatra side, emerging at last upon the
volition, in which their divided and diametrically opposite powers of vision
vomited up somewhere within three days' journey of Nineveh, a city on the
wad.  Finally, though, as will soon be revealed, its contents partly comprise
waif is a pennoned pole, two or three of which are carried by every boat;
wake, though indeed their back water must have retarded him, because the
wall that hemmed us in; the wall that had only admitted us in order to shut
walls to find where the gold is masoned in.  By the time this cautious search
war-chariot (especially in front, where it is so broadly rounded); so, at a
warmth.  By the time they have lounged up and down the promenade of the
was exactly, there is no telling now; but, on a sudden, as the eightieth
was flung; the stricken fish darted blinding spray in our faces, and then
was impossible to cast them off.  Meantime everything in the Pequod was
was soon heard; and then like to the tumultuous masses of block-ice when the
was still more strangely evinced by those of their number, who, completely
was the nature of those occult lessons he inculcated into some of his pupils.
watches the monster die.
water or dust in his trunk, and then elevating it, jet it forth in a
water; which, when three years afloat, the Nantucketer,
water; you observe that the lower part of that front slopes considerably
waters, and the best of wives she is, though she keeps so many moody
wavingly held by the German.  Impossible! --a lamp-feeder!  Not that, said
way greatly diminished; moreover, that as we went still further and further
way; an event still more likely from the violent motions of the head.  Come
we go like three tin kettles at the tail of a mad cougar!  This puts me in
we saw an arm thrust upright from the blue waves; a sight strange to see, as
we thus tore a white gash in the sea, on all sides menaced as we flew, by
we were now in that enchanted calm which they say lurks at the heart of every
weapons and their wants.  She has a whole lake's contents bottled in her ample
weight of fifty atmospheres.  One whaleman has estimated it at the weight of
weight to an eight day clock.  Suspended?  and to what?  To three bits of
well of sperm; no ivory teeth at all; no long, slender mandible of a lower
were an anchor; and when the proper time comes --some few days after the other
were spilled out, and sailed over by the three flying keels.  Don't be
were the thing to do it.  Nor does this --its amazing strength, at all tend to
western world.  The shores of the Straits of Sunda are unsupplied with those
whale and the
whale be a king, he is a very sulky looking fellow to grace a diadem.  Look
whale might have crawled up out of the sea on the beach; and considering that
whale now settled that the submerged ends could not be at all approached,
whale only fights another sperm whale with his head and jaw, nevertheless,
whale seems concentrated to a point.  Could annihilation occur to matter, this
whale should see the world through so small an eye, and hear the thunder
whale soon ceasing to sound, for some time they remained in that attitude,
whale stays under water, the more he is exhausted.  Because, owing to the
whale to land the prophet within that short distance of Nineveh?  Yes.  He
whale wounded (as we afterwards learned) in this part, but not effectually,
whale's head as a solid oblong, you may, on an inclined plane, sideways
whale's head?  For even when tranquilly swimming through the mid-day
whale's proper brain, you deem it incapable of being adequately charted,
whale's rising exposes him to all the fatal hazards of the chase.  For not by
whale, I will do my endeavor.  I try all things; I achieve what I can.
whale, and perilously drew over his swaying
whale, as the rind wraps an orange.  Just so with the head; but with this
whale, floating there suspended, with his prodigious jaw, some fifteen feet
whale, sweep inshore by the Philippine Islands, and gain the far coast of
whale-jets were up-playing and sparkling in the noon-day air.  Unlike the
whale.  At the middle of the forehead horizontally subdivide this upper quoin,
whale.  But then there were some sceptical Greeks and Romans, who, standing
whale.  Instead of sparkling water, he now spouts red blood.  That drove the
whaleman of him, that might be mooted.  It nowhere appears that he ever
whalemen calculate
whalers perform an analogous operation upon their boat; they grease the
whales that thus sank were old, meagre, and broken-hearted creatures, their
whales, who sometimes come to deadly battle, and all for love.  They fence
whales; only they did not so completely come and go; for they constantly
what the spout is; can you not tell water from air?  My dear sir, in this
whatever; and into the hole itself you can hardly insert a quill, so
wheel-spokes fly, boys, when you fasten to him that way; and there's danger of
when a general pausing commotion among the whales gave animating token that
when he is about to plunge into the deeps, his entire flukes with at least
when it shall have ascended again.  It was not long after the sinking of the
when pierced even by so small a point as a harpoon, a deadly drain is at once
when used as a fin for progression; Second, when used as a mace in battle;
when you are close enough to a whale to get a close view of his spout, he is
where Ahab, though everywhere else foiled in his pursuit, firmly counted upon
where he stood was so treacherous and oozy; or whether the Evil One himself
where his eyes had been, were beheld.  As strange misgrown masses gather in
where it hung over the side, and rubbing in the unctuousness as though
whereby when wounded, the blood is in some degree at least instantly shut off
whether wielded in sport, or in earnest, or in anger, whatever be the mood it
which is a lesson by no means to be forgotten.  Midwifery should be taught in
which may probably be set down at nine months, producing but one at a time;
which on all hands it is conceded, form the peculiar practical virtues of his
which represented Jonah's whale with two spouts in his head --a peculiarity
which the Right Whale strains the water, and in whose intricacies he retains
which the city's legends and all the inhabitants asserted to be the identical
which they swim, hence, a herring or a cod might live a century, and never
which undoubtedly contribute so much to the great strength of the masonry.
while every moment whole tons of ponderosity seemed added to the sinking bulk,
while other ships may have gone to China from New York, and back again,
while ponderous planets of unwaning woe revolve round me, deep down and deep
while stretching from them, on both sides, was the foaming swell that he made.
whit the less facts, for all that.  One old Sag-Harbor whaleman's chief reason
white mist, continually rising and falling away to leeward.  Seen from the
white-bone or swell at his broad muzzle was a dashed one, like the swell
who being planted before the ark of Israel, his horse's head and both the
whole bulk of the leviathan is knit over with a warp and woof of muscular
whole they are hereditarily entitled to en bon point.  It is very curious
why, those sons and daughters must take care of themselves; at least, with
wide extent of the herd had hitherto prevented them from learning the precise
wild wood-lands.  There are generally forty-two teeth in all; in old whales,
will about his face, I say again he has no face.
will occur to you; if in that of Isaiah, the archangels.  Standing at the
will that help him; jamming that iron-bound bucket on top of his head?  Avast,
wind I ever knew to blow from astern; but look, did ever whale yaw so
with any game hereabouts, the ship had well nigh entered the straits, when
with equal eye.
with its side or belly considerably elevated above the surface.  If the only
with many other sinewy Saxonisms of this sort, which emigrated to
with much less reason too than the Indian's, considering the exceeding
with one hand holding on to the heavy tackles, so that if the head should
with oxygenated blood.  So that for an hour or more, a thousand fathoms in the
with stun-sail piled on stun-sail, we sailed along, driving these
with such great velocity, moreover,
with the hempen one, so that the cub is thereby trapped.  Some of the
with the jaundice, or some other infirmity.  Whether this whale belonged to
with the next trial, he came forth in the good old way --head foremost.  As
with the world.  Nor are there wanting other motions of the whale in his
with their long lower jaws, sometimes locking them together, and so striving
with those wondrous, half vertical, scimetar-shaped slats of whale-bone, say
with two elements, it could not be expected to have the power of smelling.
without a single organ or tender prominence of any sort whatsoever.
without at all sounding, still continued his horizontal flight, with added
without the elevated open-work belfry of the nose.  Dash the nose from
wonderful comparative smallness of his brain proper is more than compensated
wondrous devices and dexterities, the sleights of hand and countless
wondrously minute is it.  It is lodged a little behind the eye.  With respect
wooden block, it caught under one of the seats of the boat, and in an
word to the seamen at the whip, up comes the bucket again, all bubbling like
work --Queequeg, Daggoo, and Tashtego, being all accomplished dentists, are set
worked loose from his flesh.  So that tormented to madness, he was now
world it is not so easy to settle these plain things.  I have ever found your
world, unless forced to stammer out something by way of getting a living.
world-wandering whale-ship carries no cargo but herself and crew, their
world.  If you unload his skull of its spermy heaps and then take a rear view
worshipped white-elephant in the coronation procession of the Siamese!  So
would be gone.  As devout Eckerman lifted the linen sheet from the naked
would have it to fall out so, without stating his particular reasons; how it
would have you investigate it now with the sole view of forming to yourself
would not elevate one hair of your eye-brow.  For unless you own the whale,
would then live without breathing.  Anomalous as it may seem, this is
wounded arm, cried cruel Flask, pointing to the whale-line near him.  Mind
wounded planks, but we stuffed two or three drawers and shirts in, and so
wrinkled granite hieroglyphics.  But there is no Champollion to decipher the
written a book, spoken a speech?  No, his great genius is declared in his
ye burst a blood-vessel?  Who's that been dropping an anchor overboard --we
ye?  cried Stubb to the body, don't be in such a devil of a hurry to sink!
yet it is to be observed that as a whole the herd neither advanced nor
you Queequeg --the whale there! --prick him! --hit him!  Stand up --stand up, and
you are an entire stranger to their race, you might hunt over these two
you are but a provincial and sentimentalist in Truth.  But clear Truth is a
you observe that his eyes and ears are at the sides of his head, nearly one
your oars, and clutch your souls, now!  My God, men, stand by!  Shove him off,
yourself the truest, though not the most exhilarating conception of what the
