





















































    
     According to usage they
     And all this mixes with your most mystic mood; so that fact and fancy,
     And jolly enough were
     Aye, sir, I think I can; all seams and dents but one.
     Be it said, that in this vocation of whaling, sinecures are unknown;
     But you must look at this matter in every light.  Though so short a period
     Come aboard, come aboard!  cried the gay Bachelor's commander, lifting a
     Either do that, sir, or waste in one day more oil than we may make good in a
     Hist, then.  How dost thou know that some entire, living, thinking thing may
     Look ye here, then, cried Ahab, passionately advancing, and leaning with
     Penetrating further and further into the
     Poor rover!  will ye never have done with all this weary roving?  Where go ye
     Rarmai (it will do; it is easy), he murmured at last, and signed to be
     Seat thyself sultanically among the
     The blacksmith availing himself of the mild,
     The precipitating manner in which Captain
     Upon searching, it was found
     What will the owners say, sir?  Let the owners stand on Nantucket beach and
     What's that bunch of lucifers dodging about there for?  muttered Stubb,
     When gliding by the Bashee isles we emerged
     With matted beard, and swathed in a
     and Ahab moodily stalked away with the weapon; the sound of his ivory leg,
     and seemed merely contrived for his own individual diversion.  And Ahab, he
     and so be unsolved to the last.  And this thought it must have been which
     and so remorseless a havoc; whether he must not at last be exterminated from
     and thereupon, when some expressed their delighted surprise, he, in
     and trappers of the West, when the far west (in whose sunset suns still
     be instantly brought to him, nor was there any denying him; seeing that, of
     both the ancestry and posterity of Grief go further than the ancestry and
     bowsprit was seen the long lower jaw of the last whale they had slain.
     buckskin legs and calves of legs I've seen in shop windows wouldn't compare
     but, besides the application to him of the generic remark above, this
     captain ahab mistakes; it is I. The oil in the hold is leaking, sir.  We
     days' suffering, laid him in his hammock, close to the very sill of the door
     during the midnight watch on the bearded forecastle of Noah's ark.  Was it
     elephants;
     greeted my dear Pacific with uncounted thanks, for now the long supplication
     had the young and loving healthy wife listened with no unhappy nervousness,
     his work).  Well, well, well!  Stubb knows him best of all, and Stubb
     impenetrable Japans.  Thus this mysterious, divine Pacific zones the world's
     mortal miseries shall still fertilely beget to themselves an eternally
     multum in parvo, Sheffield contrivances, assuming the exterior -- though a
     of hickory, with the bark still investing it, Ahab fitted the end to the
     slim, sure enough!  Now, for most folks one pair of legs lasts a lifetime,
     story of his wretched fate.  Belated, and not innocently, one bitter winter's
     that --let us say it again --no dying Chaldee or Greek had higher and holier
     the Unshored; therefore, to the death-longing eyes of such men, who still
     the carpenter makes a pagoda-looking cage for it.  An oarsman sprains his
     the forge choked up with cinders; the house was sold; the mother dived down
     there to a hair, do I. Is't a riddle?  I should humbly call it a poser, sir.
     thy grave-stone, too, within the churchyard, and come hither, till we marry
     till at last, Perth, withdrawing his iron from the fire, began hammering it
     which have now been hunted for thousands of years, by Semiramis, by Porus,
'Tis but indifferent architecture to make a blind dome; here's one.  No, no,
( sneezes) there's no knee-joint to make; that might puzzle a little; but a
( sneezes)--yes it's ( sneezes)--bless my soul, it won't let me speak!  This is
( sneezes).  Come, come, you old Smut, there, bear a hand, and let's have
(Carpenter standing before his vice-bench, and by the light of two lanterns
(turns to go).  Oh, Life!  Here I am, proud as Greek god, and yet standing
-- Come hither, broken-hearted; here is another life without the guilt of
--On deck!  Nay, sir, not yet; I do entreat.  And I do dare, sir --to be
--but here --to work!  Fashioned at last into an arrowy shape, and welded by
--oh!  ah! --I guess so; so; --yes, yes --oh dear!  Look ye, carpenter, I dare say
--though long parched by the dead drought of the earthy life, --in ye, men yet
.. < chapter cix 21  AHAB AND STARBUCK IN THE CABIN >
.. < chapter cvi 29  AHAB'S LEG >
.. < chapter cvii 11  THE CARPENTER >
.. < chapter cviii 7  AHAB AND THE CARPENTER THE DECK--FIRST NIGHT WATCH >
.. < chapter cx 4  QUEEQUEG IN HIS COFFIN >
.. < chapter cxi 2  THE PACIFIC >
.. < chapter cxii 13  THE BLACKSMITH >
.. < chapter cxiii 2  THE FORGE >
.. < chapter cxiv 20  THE GILDER >
.. < chapter cxv 16  THE PEQUOD MEETS THE BACHELOR >
.. <p 458 >
.. <p 459 >
.. <p 459 >
.. <p 460 >
.. <p 461 >
.. <p 462 >
.. <p 462 >
.. <p 463 >
.. <p 464 >
.. <p 465 >
.. <p 465 >
.. <p 466 >
.. <p 467 >
.. <p 468 >
.. <p 469 >
.. <p 469 >
.. <p 469n. >
.. <p 470 >
.. <p 471 >
.. <p 472 >
.. <p 472 >
.. <p 473 >
.. <p 474 >
.. <p 475 >
.. <p 476 >
.. <p 477 >
.. <p 478 >
.. <p 479 >
.. <p 479 >
.. <p 480 >
.. <p 481 >
.. <p 482 >
.. <p 483 >
.. <p 484 >
.. <p 485 >
.. <p 485 >
.. <p 486 >
.. <p 487 >
.. <p 487 >
.. <p 488 >
.. <p 489 >
A peculiar walk in this old man, a certain slight but painful appearing yawing
About it!  There; keep thy finger on it.  This is a cogent vice thou hast
Ahab had quitted the Samuel Enderby of London, had not been unattended with
Ahab thus acted.  It may have been a flash of honesty in him; or mere
Ahab's brain, as standing like an iron statue at his accustomed place beside
Ahab, said the reddening mate, moving further into the cabin, with a daring
Ahab.  But if these secret golden keys did seem to open in him his own secret
Ahab.  Devils!  Dost thou then so much as dare to critically think of me?
Antilles.  If ye find him, then comfort him; for he must be very sad; for
Bachelor, which had just wedged in her last cask of oil, and bolted down her
Bashee Isles, between which lies one of the tropical outlets from the China
Bashee isles (in whose sweet woods mild lovers must be walking), and with
Because, as has been elsewhere noticed, those whales, influenced by some
Behring's straits, and into the remotest secret drawers and lockers of the
Burtons were hoisted.
But ere he entered his cabin, a light, unnatural, half-bantering, yet most
But, in the end, it all came out; this one matter did, at least.  That direful
Carpenter, when he's through with that buckle, tell him to forge a pair of
Come hither!  bury thyself in a life which, to your now equally abhorred and
Daggoo!  What say ye, pagans!  Will ye give me as much blood as will cover
Death plucked down some virtuous elder brother, on whose whistling daily toil
Eternity.  An awe that cannot be named would steal over you as you sat by the
Evangelist St.  John.  And meet it is, that over these sea-pastures,
Forty men in one ship hunting the Sperm Whale for forty-eight months think
God, not that; yet I fear something, Captain Ahab.  Is not this harpoon for
Hark ye; if ye find Pip, tell all the Antilles he's a runaway; a coward, a
Hast lost any men?  Not enough to speak of --two islanders, that's all; --but
Hold; while Prometheus is about it, I'll order a complete man after a
I mean.  Canst thou not drive that old Adam away?  Truly, sir, I begin to
If.  But once gone through, we trace the round again; and are infants, boys,
In Sperm-whalemen with any considerable quantity of oil on board, it is a
Isles of the sea combined.  Moreover: we are to consider, that from the
Just in time, sir.  If the captain pleases, I will now mark the length.  Let
Labor's iron lullaby, the blacksmith's infants were rocked to slumber.  Oh,
Look, driven one leg to death, and spavined the other for life, and now wears
Lord and master over all this scene, the captain stood erect on the ship's
Matsmai, and Sikoke.  With his snow-white new ivory leg braced against the
Moreover, the ship's forge was ordered to be hoisted out of its temporary
Nevertheless, this old man's was a patient hammer wielded by a patient arm.
No murmur, no impatience, no petulence did come from him.  Silent, slow, and
Noah's flood, he despised Noah's Ark; and if ever the world is to be again
Now, from the South and West the Pequod was drawing nigh to Formosa and the
Oh, sir, it will break bones--beware, beware!  No fear; I like a good grip; I
Perth to the shank, the steel soon pointed the end of the iron; and as the
Perth, resting for a moment on his hammer; I am past scorching; not easily
Prometheus about there? --the blacksmith, I mean --what's he about?  He must be
Queequeg in his own proper person was a riddle to unfold; a wondrous work in
Queequeg lay with closed eyes, as if in a dream.  Pip was led away, and the
Queequeg suddenly rallied; soon there seemed no need of the carpenter's box:
Queequeg, die; and I'll beat ye your dying march.  I have heard, murmured
Queequeg, was seized with a fever, which brought him nigh to his endless end.
Signals, ensigns, and jacks of all colors were flying from her rigging, on
South-Sea-men's cabin furniture), and pointing it towards Starbuck,
Starbuck lowly murmured: -- Loveliness unfathomable, as ever lover saw in his
Starbuck, gazing down the scuttle, that in violent fevers, men, all
That's mud; we leave clay to ditchers, sir.  The fellow's impious!  What art
There, take the order, and away.  Now, what's he speaking about, and who's he
This done, pole, iron, and rope --like the Three Fates --remained inseparable,
Unwittingly here a secret has been divulged, which perhaps might more
When the last nail was driven, and the lid duly planed and fitted, he
With a wild whimsiness, he now used his coffin for a sea-chest; and emptying
You would have almost thought they were pulling down the cursed Bastile, such
a charmed circle of everlasting December, bid defiance to all pursuit from
a grandeur, and a woe.  But from the same point, take mankind in mass, and
a piece of sail-cloth being rolled up for a pillow, Queequeg now entreated to
a-calling with his horn for all legs, true or false, as brewery-men go round
abhorring, landed world, is more oblivious than death.  Come hither!  put up
about; and the hollow hull echoed under foot, as if you were treading over
accomplished, and with such liveliness of expertness in him, too; all this
account the whale immortal in his species, however perishable in his
accounted bits of ivory; heads he deemed but top-blocks; men themselves he
across here. --Rig-a-dig, dig, dig!  huzza!  Oh for a game cock now to sit upon
acts of the gladness, and the one long, and as yet uncatastrophied fifth act
adult generations must be contemporary.  And what that is, we may soon gain
affair.
afterwards learned, the bachelor had met with the most surprising success;
ago --not a good life-time --the census of the buffalo in Illinois exceeded the
ahab?  ahab seized a loaded musket from the rack (forming part of most
air; and I'm down in the whole world's books.  I am so rich, I could have
all conspired, so far as in them lay, to muffle up the knowledge of this
all day upon smooth, slow heaving swells; seated in his boat, light as a
all else in him thinned, and his cheek-bones grew sharper, his eyes,
all misery in others that is not mad.  Thou should'st go mad, blacksmith;
all mortals, some dying men are the most tyrannical; and certainly, since they
all the indifferent promptitude of his character, proceeded into the
all the more wonderful, for that while cruising in the same seas numerous
all-contributed and all-receptive ocean alluringly spread forth his whole
all-ramifying heartlessness; --yet was it oddly dashed at times, with an old,
all.  And equally fallacious seems the conceit, that because the so-called
almost any seams and dents; never mind how hard the metal, blacksmith?
almost forgot the little oval slate, smoothed ivory, where he figures up the
always says he's queer; says nothing but that one sufficient little word
an oil-butt, lashed down to the floor for a centrepiece.  In the forecastle,
ancient tongues had been really spoken in their hearing by some lofty
and deeper, disturbing the slumbers of the huge ground-tier butts; and from
and feel thy heaviest hammer between my eyes.  Answer!  Can'st thou smoothe
and fro, not only had gathered no moss; but what is more, had rubbed off
and from the hearts of infinite Pacifics, the thousand mermaids sing to them
and hark ye, my conscience is in this ship's keel. --On deck!  Captain
and lances, and jealously watching his every sooty movement, as he toiled.
and men, and Ifs eternally.  Where lies the final harbor, whence we unmoor no
and potentates of fire, have to do or not with earthly Ahab, yet, in this
and that must be because they use them mercifully, as a tender-hearted old
and the hard pressed forge shooting up its intense straight flame, the Parsee
and the houseless, familyless old man staggered off a vagabond in crape; his
and the sound of the hickory pole, both hollowly ringing along every plank.
and there they were.  Yet, as previously hinted, this omnitooled,
and there's a great cry for life-boats.  And here's the heron's leg!  long and
and twenty hours on the stretch, they were engaged in the boats, steadily
and two!  Let's make a General of him!  Ho, where's his harpoon?  Lay it
and walls, came up to her, not unsweetly, in her nursery; and so, to stout
and, I may say, an extremely gentlemanlike sort of business thou art in here,
anomalously did its duty.  What that was, whether essence of quicksilver, or a
anvil.  Look ye, blacksmith, these are the gathered nail-stubbs of the steel
any it had.  He lay without moving a few minutes, then told one to go to his
any serious leakage in the precious cargo.
appearances lusty, yet Ahab did not deem it entirely trustworthy.  And,
are considerations which render even this circumstance of little or no account
are now aggregated into vast but widely separated, unfrequent armies.  That is
are only beat with water-lilies, will ye do one little errand for me?  Seek
as an opposing argument in this matter.  Natural as it is to be somewhat
aside.
at a dollar an inch; in such a comparison an irresistible argument would seem
at all.  They soak water, they do; and of
at last the twelve rods were made, Ahab tried them, one by one, by spiralling
at last upon the great South Sea; were it not for other things, I could have
at the bottom of a well.  And a well, or an ice-house, it somehow proved to
at the masonry of the try-works, from which the huge pots had been removed.
awake.
away, Queequeg, to every one's consternation, commanded that the thing should
away, as if toil were life itself, and the heavy beating of his hammer the
babe; living without premeditated reference to this world or the next.  You
back the main-yard; up Burtons, and break out in the main-hold.  It were
bag and bring out his little god, Yojo.  Then crossing his arms on his breast
baptismal blood.  Now, mustering the spare poles from below, and selecting one
barrels of sperm; above which, in her top-mast cross-trees, you saw slender
basement of his dwelling, but with a separate entrance to it; so that always
be lifted into his final bed, that he might make trial of its comforts, if
beauty and brilliancy of the ocean's skin, one forgets the tiger heart that
been annually slain on the nor' west coast by the Americans alone; yet there
begin welding the twelve into one, when Ahab stayed his hand, and said he
begrimed, blistered old blacksmith, had not removed his portable forge to
beheld who were bystanders when Zoroaster died.  For whatever is truly
beheld, must ever after be the sea of his adoption.  It rolls the midmost
being buried in his hammock, according to the usual sea-custom, tossed like
beneath; like those fabled undulations of the Ephesian sod over the buried
better ( sneezes).  Halloa, this bone dust is ( sneezes)-- why it's
beware of thyself, old man.  He waxes brave, but nevertheless obeys; most
big vice of wood, the carpenter symmetrically supplies the constellation.  A
birch canoe; and so sociably mixing with the soft waves themselves, that
birth-mark in the brow of man, is but the stamp of sorrow in the signers.
black tragedy of the melancholy ship, and mocked it!
blacksmith eyed the razors as though he would fain not use them.  Take them,
blacksmith was about giving the barbs their final heat, prior to tempering
blessed calms would last.  But the mingled, mingling threads of life are woven
boiler, and filled it; that the steward had plugged his spare coffee-pot and
bones of murderers.  Quick!  forge me the harpoon.  And forge me first, twelve
both feet.  Out of this revelation, part by part, at last came out the four
both hands on Perth's shoulders; look ye here -- here --can ye smoothe out a
both useful and capricious.  The one grand stage where he enacted all his
boyhood's thoughtless faith, adolescence' doubt (the common doom), then
brag with.  By heavens!  I'll get a crucible, and into it, and dissolve
braided and woven round the socket of the harpoon; the pole was then driven
brain, if he had ever had one, must have early oozed along into the muscles of
breakers of the
breakers of the milky way.  He added, that he shuddered at the thought of
bristling shark-skin apron, about mid-day, Perth was standing between his
brow.  Come along, will ye (merry's the play); a full ship and
burglar into his family's heart.  It was the Bottle Conjuror!  Upon the opening
burglar slid into his happy home, and robbed them all of everything.  And
bursting hatches; and now, in glad holiday apparel, was joyously, though
busily filing the ivory joist for the leg, which joist is firmly fixed in the
but base little Pip, he died a coward; died all a'shiver; --out upon Pip!
but with vigorous pleasure, to the stout ringing of her young-armed old
by hannibal, and by all the successive monarchs of the East --if they still
by the changed character of the withdrawn water, the mariners readily detect
by warp and woof: calms crossed by storms, a storm for every calm.  There is
cachalot, some philosophers of the forecastle have concluded that this
calculate over again; I think I didn't carry a small figure, sir.  Look ye,
called ruin.  He had been an artisan of famed excellence, and with plenty to
can at last resort to their Polar citadels, and diving under the ultimate
can'st thou scorch a scar.  Well, well; no more.  Thy shrunk voice sounds
captain's and officers' staterooms.  Even the cabin table itself had been
captain's pantaloons pockets, and those he reserved to thrust his hands into,
captains in themselves impersonated the whole striking contrast of the scene.
careful bravery that!  murmured Ahab, as Starbuck disappeared.  What's that
carpenter for a screw-driver, all they had to do was to open that part of
carpenter of the Pequod was singularly efficient in those thousand nameless
carpenter.  And when that functionary appeared before him, he bade him
carpenter; --or would'st thou rather work in clay?  Sir? --Clay?  clay, sir?
cask containing coins of Captain Noah, with copies of the posted placards,
casks with sea-water; which afterwards, at varying intervals, is removed by
casks, but those leaky casks are in a leaky ship; and that's a far worse
census of men now in London, and though at the present day not one horn or
century and more, therefore at any one period of time, several distinct
certain canonic teachings, that while some natural enjoyments here shall have
chalking Queequeg's person as he shifted the rule.  Ah!  poor fellow!  he'll
cheerful-looking church, planted in a grove.  But one night, under cover of
chickens, Perth?  they are always flying in thy wake; birds of good omen,
chief
circle the above hinted casualty --remaining, as it did, moodily unaccounted
circle, all waiting to be served; holding boat-spades, pike-heads, harpoons,
civilized; that while a sick, civilized man may be six months convalescing,
clean shaved rods of right-whale bone, and cross-beams of sperm whale ivory,
clearest-grained stuff might be secured.  This done, the carpenter received
coasts; the moot point is, whether Leviathan can long endure so wide a chase,
collecting old beer barrels, to fill 'em up again.  What a leg this is!  It
come aboard, old hearty, come along.  I'll soon take that black from your
command to the steersman (it was, as ever, something about his not steering
commanded to do Queequeg's bidding, whatever it might include.  There was some
commanded to proceed at once to the forging of whatever iron contrivances
conceals a remorseless fang.  These are the times, when in his whale-boat the
concerning Ahab, always had it remained a mystery to some, why it was, that
conscience.  But look ye, the only real owner of anything is its commander;
contemporary and hereditary.  But most humble though he was, and far from
course get rheumatic, and have to be doctored ( sneezes) with washes and
coward, a coward!  Tell them he jumped from a whale-boat!  I'd never beat my
crew: Furl the t'gallant-sails and close-reef the top-sails, fore and aft;
critical moment, he had just recalled a little duty ashore, which he was
cruising-ground, the old man's purpose intensified itself.  His firm lips met
crutch-like, antediluvian, wheezing humorousness, not unstreaked now and then
cured.  Nor, at the time, had it failed to enter his monomaniac mind, that all
dark canoes, and that the fancy of being so laid had much pleased him; for
darker yet to tell, the blacksmith himself did ignorantly conduct this
darkness, and further concealed in a most cunning disguisement, a desperate
day, too, gazing far down from his boat's side into that same golden sea,
dead bone upon which he partly stood.  For it had not been very long prior to
deaf and dumb, spontaneous literal process.  He was a pure manipulator; his
debtor to this blockhead for a bone to stand on!  Cursed be that mortal
deep did they go; and so ancient, and corroded, and weedy the aspect of the
degree the scattered solitaries, yokes, and pods, and schools of other days
delicious grief, and her orphans a truly venerable, legendary sire to dream
deliriously howled Ahab, as the malignant iron scorchingly devoured the
demijohn.  Top-heavy was the ship as a dinnerless student with all Aristotle
desirable pattern.  Imprimis, fifty feet high in his socks; then, chest
die yet, he averred.  They asked him, then, whether to live or die was a
die, or be weakened.  And like circles on the water, which, as they grow
dignity and danger go hand in hand; till you get to be Captain, the higher
diligent tracings-out not belie the obvious deduction.  To trail the
disembowelled, you should have stooped over the hatchway, and peered down
displaced, that it had stake-wise smitten, and all but pierced his groin;
do naturally beget their like.  Yea, more than equally, thought Ahab; since
do; owned a house and garden; embraced a youthful, daughter-like, loving
does it seem any argument in favor
done, he marshalled the planks and his tools, and to work.
done?  Perhaps an hour, sir.  Bungle away at it then, and bring it to me
drawing near of Death, which alike levels all, alike impresses all with a
drawings; and it seemed that hereby he was striving, in his rude way, to copy
drawn from it, and then had the iron part placed in the coffin along with one
dreamy quietude, when beholding the tranquil
drums came from her forecastle; and drawing still nearer, a crowd of her men
ears.  Another has the toothache: the carpenter out pincers, and clapping
earth, and a mystical treatise on the art of attaining truth; so that
easier to harvest.  Why tell the whole?  The blows of the basement hammer
elevated quarter-deck, so that the whole rejoicing drama was full before him,
elsewhere seen -- mount his dead back in a rolling sea; and finally descend
empire (which was the world's); and yet I owe for the flesh in the tongue I
empty catacombs, and reeled and rolled in the sea like an air-freighted
ensuing scene, the carpenter continues sneezing at times).  Well, manmaker!
every day grew more and more between; and each blow every day grew fainter
every preparation for death; now that his coffin was proved a good fit,
every side.  Sideways lashed in each of her three basketed tops were two
every woe unreverenced; his grey head a scorn to flaxen curls!  Death seems
exclaimed: There is one God that is Lord over the earth, and one Captain
extremity the rope was unstranded, and the separate spread yarns were all
eyes in the deck, or new tree-nails in the side planks, and other
fainter, expand; so his eyes seemed rounding and rounding, like the rings of
fall of eve, the blacksmith's soul responded, Aye, I come!  And so Perth
feel the smart of my crushed leg, though it be now so long dissolved; then,
feet through the wrist; no heart at all, brass forehead, and about a
fellow, Starbuck, he said lowly to the mate; then raising his voice to the
few drops of hartshorn, there is no telling.  But there it was; and there it
filled it; that the harpooneers had headed the sockets of their irons and
filled them; that indeed everything was filled with sperm, except the
finally given in; and so it came to pass that every one now knew the shameful
find it in the deep-loaded hull; or how hope to plug it, even if found, in
firmly secured aloft between the foremast and mainmast, three Long Island
fishery.  Often, in mild, pleasant weather, for twelve, fifteen, eighteen,
flights, some of which flew close to Ahab.  Are these thy Mother Carey's
flood, spout his frothed defiance to the skies.
flood-tide lifted him higher and higher towards his destined heaven.  Not a
flooded, like the Netherlands, to kill off its rats, then the eternal whale
followed by the joy-childlessness of all hell's despair; whereas, some guilty
footstep at the door, but not turning round to it.  On deck!  Begone!
for a certain period, both before and after the sailing of the Pequod, he
for by Ahab --invested itself with terrors, not entirely underived from the
for it, independent of those pertaining to the distrusted one in use.
for prudent, most wise, and economic reasons, the blacksmith's shop was in the
for the most part, they seem a mob of unnecessary duplicates, both
for the peculiarly active pursuits shortly to be anticipated, Perth, the
for things passed, the other all forebodings as to things to come --their two
for, man?  thrusted light is worse than presented pistols.  i thought, sir,
forbearing!  Shall we not understand each other better than hitherto, Captain
forecastle and took Queequeg's measure with great accuracy, regularly
forge and anvil, the latter placed upon an iron-wood log, with one hand
forging the buckle-screw, sir, now.  Right.  It's a partnership; he supplies
former woe; and he too plainly seemed to see, that as the most poisonous
found too large to be easily inserted into its hole: the carpenter claps it
from promontory to cape; and if one coast is no longer enlivened with their
from surveying poor Queequeg -- Oh, devilish tantalization of the gods!
from the ships she had met; and these were stowed along the deck, and in the
from these dark planks the coffin was recommended to be made.  No sooner was
furnished with several vices, of different sizes, and both of iron and of
furnished, to show that the hunted whale cannot now escape speedy extinction.
furnishing an example of the high, humane abstraction; the Pequod's carpenter
gaffs and pikes to-day.  Look ye here!  jingling the leathern bag, as if it
genealogies
generally speaking, a sick savage is almost half-well again in a day.  So, in
given bid for bid with the wealthiest Praetorians at the auction of the Roman
glass and a bottle in the air.  Hast seen the White Whale?  gritted Ahab in
glassy barriers and walls there, come up among icy fields and floes; and in
glitteringly gazing into the weeping faces of her children; the bellows fell;
globe, yet what shall we say to Harto, the historian of Goa, when he tells
gloom; and as the two ships crossed each other's wakes --one all jubilations
golden treasuries, yet did his breath upon them prove but tarnishing.  Oh,
good finish on.  Time, time; if I but only had the time, I could turn him
good luck bore down upon the moody Pequod, the barbarian sound of enormous
good time my Queequeg gained strength; and at length after sitting on the
gradations, and at the last one pause: --through infancy's unconscious spell,
grassy glades!  oh, ever vernal endless landscapes in the soul; in ye,
great part of the time soliloquizing; but only like an unreasoning wheel,
had abided for now some sixty years or more.  And this it was, this same
had barrels of beef and bread been given away to make room for the far more
had elapsed, did it transpire upon the Pequod's decks.  But be all this as it
had hidden himself away with such Grand-Lama-like exclusiveness; and, for
had the young widow had a
half-horrible stolidity in him, involving, too, as it appeared, an
half-humorous cries with which the people on deck began to drive the coffin
half-stupidly felt the deadly numbness stealing over him, and sought refuge
half-way meeting, interpenetrate, and form one seamless whole.  Nor did such
hand, the wondrous old man, with his back to the gangway door, was wrinkling
handicrafts which more or less have to do with wood as an auxiliary material.
handle of his wooden vice, the carpenter signs him to clap his jaw in that,
hard up into the socket; from the lower end the rope was traced half way along
hard which should be soft, and that soft which should be hard.  So we go,
hast here, then, the best and stubbornest stuff we blacksmiths ever work.  I
have left in them some interior compunctions against suicide, does the
have to die now, ejaculated the Long Island sailor.  Going to his
he caught a terrible chill which lapsed into a fever; and at last, after some
he did not have a common soul in him, he had a subtle something that somehow
he half calmly rose, and as he quitted the cabin, paused for an instant and
he said --Ahab beware of Ahab --there's something there!  Then unconsciously
he spent, in carving the lid with all manner of grotesque figures and
he's left his tambourine behind; --I found it.  Rig-a-dig, dig, dig!  Now,
head, and a small bag of woody earth scraped up in the hold at the foot; and
heart of earth.  Lifted by those eternal swells, you needs must own the
heart of the Japanese cruising ground, the Pequod was soon all astir in the
heathenish, coffin-colored old lumber aboard, which, upon a long previous
heavy beating of his heart.  And so it was. --Most miserable!
here's his leg!  Yes, now that I think of it, here's his bedfellow!  has a
here, carpenter; let me feel its grip once.  so, so; it does pinch some.
here.  No, no!  shame upon all cowards --shame upon them!  Let 'em go drown
hidden bodies widely wade through the amazing verdure.  The long-drawn virgin
high rolling waves, but through the tall grass of a rolling prairie: as when
hilarious jig.  Meanwhile, others of the ship's company were tumultuously busy
him, and the screw was fast: or if for tweezers, take him up by the legs,
him, poor pagan; where, strange to say, for all the heat of his sweatings,
his brow, and tracing his old courses again.  Who's there?  hearing the
his fingers.  He was like one of those unreasoning but still highly useful,
his head and crow!  queequeg dies game! --mind ye that; queequeg dies game! --
his old Mogulship, and see whether the length will be all right; too short,
his own pivot-hole there, he so vehemently wheeled round with an urgent
history; but here Stubb takes oaths that he has always been jolly!
hoisted boat, and poising a harpoon, pronounced himself fit for a fight.
holders, so called.  Poor Queequeg!  when the ship was about half
holding a pike-head in the coals, and with the other at his forge's lungs,
hoof of them remains in all that region; and though the cause of this
hoops, were hoisted out, till at last the piled decks were hard to get
hovering near by all this while, drew nigh to him where he lay, and with
hull, Stern all!  the White Whale spouts thick blood!
hum; you almost swear that play-wearied children lie sleeping in these
hummed like a harp-string, then eagerly bending over it, and seeing no
hunted from the savannas and glades of the middle seas, the whale-bone whales
hunting, since he has a pasture to expatiate in, which is precisely twice as
husband's hammer; whose reverberations, muffled by passing through the floors
idleness in the hold; and, to accelerate the affair, the blacksmith was
if anything, I guess.  Ha!  that's the heel; we are in luck; here he comes,
if he would have him draw the tooth.  Thus, this carpenter was prepared at all
ignorance, have talked in ancient tongues; and that when the mystery is
ignores you, though you dig foundations for cathedrals.  Yet was this
in a leaning, dilapidated barn.  The issue was, the loss of the extremities of
in his gait, had at an early period of the voyage excited the curiosity of
in his head.  Well was it that the Typhoons did not visit them then.  Now, at
in numerous trades and callings collateral to his own; the carpenter's
in self-complacent testimony of his entire satisfaction.  As this glad ship of
in which the hated White Whale must even then be swimming.  Launched at length
incredulous concerning the populousness of the more enormous creatures of the
indeed, it seemed small matter for wonder, that for all his pervading, mad
individuality.  He swam the seas before the continents broke water; he once
indulged.  Leaning over in his hammock, Queequeg long regarded the coffin
inexplicable, unimaginable casualty, his ivory limb having been so violently
inflexibly enough); then, the already shaken ivory received such an additional
inter-indebtedness which will not do away with ledgers.  I would be free as
intermediate death; here are wonders supernatural, without dying for them.
into Ahab's bent face.  Would'st thou brand me, Perth?  wincing for a moment
into it his canvas bag of clothes, set them in order there.  Many spare hours
into one of his ever-ready vices, and straightway files it smaller.  A lost
into the gloom of the hold, and bitterly sweating all day in that
into the long church-yard grass; her children twice followed her thither;
into the sea.
involved but uncertain steering, and much lee-way adown the dim ages.  Now,
isles, but that far beyond all visible horizons, their own mild,
it all hissing into the cask of water near by, the scalding steam shot up
it almost seemed not only every way seeking to avoid the slightest outward
it into Mr. Starbuck all the time -- queer, sir --queer, queer, very queer.  And
it is, so it is; if we get it.  I was speaking of the oil in the hold,
it speak thoroughly well for thy work, if, when I come to mount this leg
it was humorously added, that the cook had clapped a head on his largest
it was not unlike the custom of his own race, who, after embalming a dead
it.  And can'st thou make it all smooth, again, blacksmith, after such hard
itself; A better man than I might well pass over in thee what he would
jets, then, be sure, some other and remoter strand has been very recently
kidnapping cannibal ways.  Let faith oust fact; let fancy oust memory; I
knocked into kindling-wood; and the cabin mess dined off the broad head of
know it, old man; these stubbs will weld together like glue from the melted
lady uses her roly-poly old coach-horses.  But Ahab; oh he's a hard driver.
land of spirits and of wails.  So that, through their zeal for him, they had
land-bird of strange plumage strays on board, and is made a captive: out of
large as all Asia, both Americas, Europe and Africa, New Holland, and all the
lashed athwartships against the rear of the Try-works.  A belaying pin is
last revelation, which only an author from the dead could adequately tell.  So
latitude.  So, so; chisel, file, and sand-paper, now!
launching into the region of the strange Untried; it is but the first
lay Queequeg in his coffin with little but his composed countenance in view.
leak must be further off.  So, it being calm weather, they broke out deeper
leak!  I'm all aleak myself.  Aye!  leaks in leaks!  not only full of leaky
leaped up in that same golden light: -- I am Stubb, and Stubb has his
learned that all whalemen who died in Nantucket, were laid in those same
leathern bag.  While yet a little distance from the forge, moody Ahab paused;
leaving undone; and therefore had changed his mind about dying: he could not
lightly held for capstans.  But while now upon so wide a field thus variously
lightly shouldered the coffin and went forward with it, inquiring whether they
like Pip, that jumped from a whale-boat.  Shame!  shame!  During all this,
like a whale-boat these coffin-canoes were without a keel; though that
like hearth-stone cats they purr against the gunwale; these are the times of
like his own fin-bone.  There's the stuff, flinging the pouch upon the
like the lips of a vice; the Delta of his forehead's veins swelled like
like the yarns and strands of a tow-line.  Quick!  I'll blow the fire.  When
like to feel something in this slippery world that can hold, man.  What's
little cabin; but presently the thick plaits of his forehead relaxed, and
little swelled --of a common pocket knife; but containing, not only blades of
live heart beat against them; and these mysteries were therefore destined in
look deep down and do believe.  And Stubb, fish-like, with sparkling scales,
look!
look-outs at the mast-heads of the whale-ships, now penetrating even through
looked so scornful at me!  I'm a sort of strange-thoughted
looking on from the forecastle.  That Parsee smells fire like a fusee; and
looks like a real live leg, filed down to nothing but the core; he'll be
lotions, just like live legs.  There; before I saw it off, now, I must call
lowermost puncheons, that you almost looked next for some mouldy corner-stone
lunacy, brings heavenly vouchers of all our heavenly homes.  Where learned he
made in fire must properly belong to fire; and so hell's probable.  How the
made the transfer permanent by cutting two notches at its extremities.  This
made up his mind to live, mere sickness could not kill him: nothing but a
make them thyself, man.  Here are my razors --the best of steel; here, and make
making there?  Welding an old pike-head, sir; there were seams and dents in
man of the crew but gave him up; and, as for Queequeg himself, what he
man, I have no need for them; for I now neither shave, sup, nor pray till
man.  But as perhaps fifty of these whale-bone whales are harpooned for one
manifestation of itself, but within also seemed more than half distrustful of
marks, had written out on his body a complete theory of the heavens and the
mast-head wore long streamers of narrow red bunting at their hats; from the
mates and harpooneers were dancing with the olive-hued girls who had eloped
matter of his own sovereign will and pleasure.  He answered, certainly.  In a
may roll, like young horses in new morning clover; and for some few fleeting
may; let the unseen, ambiguous synod in the air, or the vindictive princes
me measure, sir.  Measured for a leg!  good.  Well, it's not the first time.
mechanical emergencies continually recurring in a large ship, upon a three
mentioned Leviathans, they have two firm fortresses, which, in all human
mere shinbone --why it's easy as making hop-poles; only I should like to put a
midnight, on the road running between two country towns, the blacksmith
might almost say, that this strange uncompromisedness in him involved a sort
might be needed.
milky-ways of coral isles, and low-lying, endless, unknown Archipelagoes, and
mine once was; so, now, here is only one distinct leg to the eye,
miscellaneous matters more directly pertaining to his special business; he
mishap was at the bottom of his temporary recluseness.  And not only this, but
modelled after the Thames Tunnel; then, legs with roots to 'em, to stay in
moments, feel the cool dew of the life immortal on them.  Would to God these
moons of Saturn, and take high abstracted man alone; and he seems a wonder,
more recondite Nantucketers.  Whether owing to the almost omniscient
more?  in what rapt ether sails the world, of which the weariest will
morning watch, when the day was just breaking, and taking his hand, said
much by reason or by instinct, or simply because he had been tutored to it,
must not only face all the rage of the living whale, but --as we have
must up Burtons and break out.  Up Burtons and break out?  Now that we are
myself down to one small, compendious vertebra.  So.  Carpenter ( resuming
mystic significance, and, in some men, an archangelic grandeur; so do their
nearing Japan; heave-to here for a week to tinker a parcel of old hoops?
nearly sixty, had postponedly encountered that thing in sorrow's technicals
negroes, with glittering fiddle-bows of whale ivory, were presiding over the
never weary?  Where is the foundling's father hidden?  Our souls are like
nevertheless, seemed growing fuller and fuller; they became of a strange
no children born to them for the other world, but, on the contrary, shall be
no means adequate; though, indeed, as touching all Ahab's deeper part, every
no steady unretracing progress in this life; we do not advance through fixed
no; I must have a lantern.  Ho, ho!  That's it, hey?  Here are two, sir; one
nor was it without extreme difficulty that the agonizing wound was entirely
not be invisibly and uninterpenetratingly standing precisely where thou now
now a most meaning thing, that that old Greek, Prometheus, who made men, they
now almost incessantly invoked by the headsmen, and harpooneers, and bowsmen
now?  But if the currents carry ye to those sweet Antilles where the beaches
of creation yielding up the live bodies of all the men, women, and children
of death.  How he wasted and wasted away in those few long-lingering days,
of his readiness in ordinary duties: --repairing stove boats, sprung spars,
of in their after years; and all of them a care-killing competency.  But
of it taken to the windlass, and
of mixed shades and shadows, drowned dreams, somnambulisms, reveries; all
of my skull -- that is all wrinkles!  But, away with child's play; no more
of my youth was answered; that serene ocean rolled eastwards from me a
of poor Queequeg, as he quietly lay in his swaying hammock, and the rolling
of that fatal cork, forth flew the fiend, and shrivelled up his home.  Now,
of the gradual extinction of the Sperm Whale, for example, that in former
of the grief of his life's drama.  He was an old man, who, at the age of
of the mate, and his fiery cheeks, you would have almost thought that he had
of the paddles of his boat.  All by his own request, also, biscuits were
of these high mortal miseries, carries us at last among the sourceless
of unintelligence; for in his numerous trades, he did not seem to work so
officer of his ship.  However it was, his orders were executed; and the
oil of forty fish.  Whereas, in the days of the old Canadian and Indian hunters
old body like me, should never undertake to wade out into deep waters with
on the anvil, Perth passing to him the glowing rods, one after the other,
on the voyage, in order that a careful selection of the stoutest,
one complete rod, received its final heat; and as perth, to temper it, plunged
one hand upon his bench bids him be seated there; but the poor fellow
one place; then, arms three
one to him in the grey
one volume; but whose mysteries not even himself could read, though his own
one?  aye, blacksmith, it is the one; aye, man, it is unsmoothable; for
open-and-shut carpenter, was, after all, no mere machine of an automaton.  If
or by any intermixture of all these, even or uneven; but merely by a kind of
or four years' voyage, in uncivilized and far-distant seas.  For not to speak
or it's somebody else, that's certain.  Ahab ( advancing). (During the
orders to have the leg completed that night; and to provide all the fittings
other good-humoredly.  Come aboard!  Thou are too damned jolly.  Sail on.
other vessels had gone entire months without securing a single fish.  Not only
out as neat a leg now as ever ( sneezes) scraped to a lady in a parlor.  Those
out bone legs by the cord.  Halloa, there, you Smut!  bear a hand there with
out one Pip, who's now been missing long: I think he's in those far
outwards?  No, but put a sky-light on top of his head to illuminate inwards.
outyell the Typhoons.  What cares Ahab?  Owners, owners?  Thou art always
overladen brooks; in his very sleep, his ringing cry ran through the vaulted
overspread by tens of thousands the prairies of Illinois and Missouri, and
pants beneath it; and would not willingly remember, that this velvet paw but
parchment-like poke or stomach skin of the black fish, gave forth a loud roar
parts of the twisted tattooing on his body.  And this tattooing, had been the
passed silently, and bowing over his head towards the fire, seemed invoking
paternity lies in their grave, and we must there to learn it.  And that same
pauselessly active in uncounted modes, still eternally holds its peace, and
perhaps vain to surmise exactly why it was, that as respecting Starbuck,
piteous sound was heard.  Oh, Pip!  thy wretched laugh, thy idle but
place with it; that is, carpenter, my old lost leg; the flesh and blood one,
placed over him.  The head part turned over with a leather hinge, and there
plain of unimaginable, taking terrors, and wonderful, new-life adventures;
planted by the recentest race of men, and lave the faded but still gorgeous
plight than the Pequod's, man.  Yet I don't stop to plug my leak; for who can
pods, were encountered much oftener than at present, and, in consequence,
points, and alike indifferent and without respect in all.  Teeth he
positive havoc has already very seriously diminished their battalions.  But
possessed the privilege of a less banned approach to him; to that timid
posterity of Joy.  For, not to hint of this: that it is an inference from
prating to me, Starbuck, about those miserly owners, as if the owners were my
present human population of the globe.  Wherefore, for all these things, we
present matter of his leg, he took plain practical procedures; --he called the
presumed great longevity of whales, their probably attaining the age of a
primogenitures of the gods; so that, in the face of all the glad, hay-making
probability, will for ever remain impregnable.  And as upon the invasion of
probed, it turns out always that in their wholly forgotten childhood those
progressive progeny of griefs beyond the grave; not at all to hint of this,
prone upon the ground, and insensible; by some unknown, and seemingly
properly, in set way, have been disclosed before.  With many other particulars
prudential policy which, under the circumstance, imperiously forbade the
pudding-heads should never grant premises. --How long before this leg is
pulling, or sailing, or paddling after the whales, or for an interlude of
punctures were made in the heathen flesh, and the White Whale's barbs were
pursuit being the ancient and outbranching trunk of all those numerous
quarter of an acre of fine brains; and let me see --shall I order eyes to see
queer; he's queer, says Stubb; he's queer--queer, queer; and keeps dinning
quickly enough resent in a younger man; aye!  and in a happier, Captain
really received the blaze of the levelled tube.  But, mastering his emotion,
really so, sir?  It is, man.  Look, put thy live leg here in the place where
received a half-splintering shock.  And when after gaining his own deck, and
recklessness, Ahab did at times give careful heed to the condition of that
reforming the shape of clumsy-bladed oars, inserting bull's
regular semi-weekly duty to conduct a hose into the hold, and drench the
replaced in his hammock.  But ere this was done, Pip, who had been slily
reply.  No; only heard of him; but don't believe in him at all, said the
representing the long eastern coasts of the Japanese islands -- Niphon,
reptile of the marsh perpetuates his kind as inevitably as the sweetest
restlessness.  To any meditative Magian rover, this serene Pacific, once
returning the gun to the rack, he went to the deck.  Thou art but too good a
revealing only the tops of her masts, seems struggling forward, not though
revelation partook more of significant darkness than of explanatory light.
rigging, with one nostril he unthinkingly snuffed the sugary musk from the
rise) was a wilderness and a virgin, the same number of moccasined men, for
rods for its shank; then wind, and twist, and hammer these twelve together
rover softly feels a certain filial, confident, land-like feeling towards the
rulers, nail-filers, counter-sinkers.  So, if his superiors wanted to use the
said: Thou hast outraged, not insulted me, Sir; but for that I ask thee not
sailor takes a fancy to wear shark-bone ear-rings: the carpenter drills his
salutation to the possibilities of the immense Remote, the Wild, the Watery,
same precious fluid; and nailed to her main truck was a brazen lamp.  As was
same waves wash the moles of the new-built Californian towns, but yesterday
say, should have been a blacksmith, and animated them with fire; for what's
say, why dost thou not go mad?  How can'st thou endure without being mad?  Do
scepticism, then disbelief, resting at last in manhood's pondering repose of
scholars.  So, to my fond faith, poor Pip, in this strange sweetness of his
screwed leg of his table, and with a long pruning-hook of a jack-knife in his
sea seemed gently rocking him to his final rest, and the ocean's invisible
sea-going ship carpenters, and more especially those belonging to whaling
sea; that he regards it as so much flowery earth; and the distant ship
seam like this, blacksmith, sweeping one hand across his ribbed brow;;if
seductive god, bowing your head to Pan.  But few thoughts of Pan stirred
senate of the dead.  Captain Peleg's bruited reason for this thing appeared by
shoes of racing horses.  Horse-shoe stubbs, sir?  Why, Captain Ahab, thou
shook their iron manes and scowled with their thunder-clotted brows upon the
sick man was replaced in his hammock.  But now that he had apparently made
sickness, a wondrous testimony to that immortal health in him which could not
side of this waning savage, and saw as strange things in his face, as any
sir.  And I was not speaking or thinking of that at all.  Begone!  Let it
sir; how that a dismasted man never entirely loses the feeling of his old
sites of populous river-capitals, where now the polite broker sells you land
sixty or seventy minutes calmly awaiting their uprising; though with but
skirts of Asiatic lands, older than Abraham; while all between float
slightest symptom of open disaffection, however transient, in the important
slumberers in their beds; the ever-rolling waves but made so by their
small success for their pains.  At such times, under an abated sun; afloat
smells of it himself, like a hot musket's powder-pan.  At last the shank, in
so strangely respectful and cautious that
so.  For nothing was this man more remarkable, than for a certain impersonal
socket of the iron.  A coil of new tow-line was then unwound, and some fathoms
soft sobbings, took him by the hand; in the other, holding his tambourine.
softness of lustre; and mildly but deeply looked out at you there from his
solely hung the responsibilities of some other family, and left the worse
solemn; bowing over still further his chronically broken back, he toiled
solitudes, in some glad May-time, when the flowers of the woods are plucked.
some curse or some blessing on the toil.  But, as Ahab looked up, he slid
some idea of, by imagining all the grave-yards, cemeteries, and family vaults
some small violence to his own person.  He had lighted with such energy upon a
something vile to the death-devouring sharks.  No: he desired a canoe like
sometimes, they say; but that's only haphazard-like.  Then, a short, little
somewhat vain-gloriously, sailing round among the widely-separated ships on
songster of the grove; so, equally with every felicity, all miserable events
soot flies!  This must be the remainder the Greek made the Africans of.
soothing scenes, however temporary, fail of at least as temporary an effect on
sorts lying about the bench.  Forward, the red flame of the forge is seen,
spar, but it will be still pricking him at times.  May I humbly ask if it be
speaking to, I should like to know?  Shall I keep standing here? ( aside).
standest; aye, and standing there in thy spite?  In thy most solitary hours,
standing on this to-morrow; he'll be taking altitudes on it.  Halloa!  I
stars to be painted upon the blade of his every oar; screwing each oar in his
startled by the unfamiliar spectacle.  Furthermore: concerning these last
steel shoulder-blades; there's a pedlar aboard with a crushing pack.  Sir?
stern, a whale-boat was suspended, bottom down; and hanging captive from the
stick of whale's jaw-bone for a wife!  And this is his leg; he'll stand on
still retained it on deck, fast lashed to ringbolts by the foremast; being
stolidity as it were; impersonal, I say; for it so shaded off into the
stolidity discernible in the whole visible world; which while
strandings, ahab exclaimed, good!  and now for the seizings.  At one
stretched to a great tension.  Pressing his foot upon it, till the rope
stretching, yawned a little bit, and then springing into the head of his
substance, said, that the cause of his sudden convalescence was this; --at a
subterraneous confinement, resolutely manhandle the clumsiest casks and see
suddenly leaped to his feet, threw out arms and legs, gave himself a good
suggested to Ahab that wild exclamation of his, when one morning turning away
summer-cool weather that now reigned in these latitudes, and in preparation
suns, and soft-cymballing, round harvest-moons, we must needs give in to
supplied with all the studs and joists of jaw-ivory (Sperm Whale) which had
surrounding infinite of things, that it seemed one with the general
survive there in great numbers, much more may the great whale outlast all
swam over the site of the Tuileries, and Windsor Castle, and the Kremlin.  In
take ye good heed of that; Queequeg dies game!  I say; game, game, game!
taken this old blacksmith to thyself ere his full ruin came upon him, then
tall, heron-built captains; the water chucks you under the chin pretty quick,
tambourine over base Pip, and hail him General, if he were once more dying
temperate climes.  And there seems no reason to doubt that if these elephants,
than the last; the wife sat frozen at the window, with tearless eyes,
than useless old man standing, till the hideous rot of life should make him
that black midnight sending those gigantic moles into the daylight above.  So
that ferule and buckle-screw; I'll be ready for them presently.  Lucky now
that in those regions elephants are numerous as droves of cattle in the
that is lord over the Pequod. --On deck!  For an instant in the flashing eyes
that one interval, sought speechless refuge, as it were, among the marble
that sort.  Now, there is this noteworthy difference between savage and
that the casks last struck into the hold were perfectly sound, and that the
that this old carpenter had been a life-long wanderer, whose much rolling, to
that we call lives and souls, lie dreaming, dreaming, still; tossing like
that while in Nantucket he had chanced to see certain little canoes of dark
that you spoke to carpenter.  Carpenter?  why that's --but no; --a very tidy,
that, but there? --Hark!  he speaks again: but more wildly now.  Form two
that, if need were, could be statistically stated.  Nor, considered aright,
that; I want it of the true death-temper.  Ahoy, there!  Tashtego, Queequeg,
the Pequod's sailing from Nantucket, that he had been found one night lying
the White Whale?  For the white fiend!  But now for the barbs; thou must
the anguish of that then present suffering was but the direct issue of a
the barbs sharp as the needle-sleet of the Icy Sea.  For a moment, the old
the carpenter apprised of the order, than taking his rule, he forthwith with
the end to moulder away with the living parchment whereon they were inscribed,
the ground, previous to pointing her prow for home.  The three men at her
the heavens yet hate thee, that thou can'st not go mad? --What wert thou
the hold again, after concluding his contributory work for Ahab's leg, but
the last one.  Work that over again, Perth.  This done, Perth was about to
the mariners.  And to the importunity of their persisted questionings he had
the mizen
the muscle part.  He makes a fierce red flame there!  Aye, sir; he must have
the only desirable sequel for a career like this; but Death is only a
the oriental archipelagoes spread before him; and another separate one
the other consciously inhaled the salt breath of the new found sea; that sea
the pole's length, and firmly secured so, with intertwistings of twine.
the sailors had actually caulked and pitched their chests, and filled them;
the same number of months, mounted on horse instead of sailing in ships,
the ship's pumps.  Hereby the casks are sought to be kept damply tight; while
the sights and the sounds that came bearing down before the wind, some few
the voyages were not so prolonged, and were also much more remunerative.
the waters, and the last whale, like the last man, smoke his last pipe, and
the western emigrants' horses only show their erected ears, while their
the whale-hunt peremptorily forbids so inglorious an end to the Leviathan.
the white heat for this kind of fine work.  Um-m.  So he must.  I do deem it
thee!  Hearkening to these voices, East and West, by early sun-rise, and by
their valleys, the frosty Swiss have retreated to their mountains; so,
them, he cried to Ahab to place the water-cask near.  No, no --no water for
them, hence that species also is declining.  For they are only being driven
them, with his own hand, round a long, heavy iron bolt.  A flaw!  rejecting
then himself evaporate in the final puff.  Comparing the humped herds of
then ranged round the sides within: a flask of fresh water was placed at the
then tempered.  Ego non baptizo te in nomine patris, sed in nomine diaboli!
then, dost thou not fear eavesdroppers?  Hold, don't speak!  And if I still
there still seems an inequality in the deeper analysis of the thing.  For,
they have done extremely well, and thank God, if at last they carry home the
thing from others; and hence it was, that not till a considerable interval
this barb?  holding it high up.  A cluster of dark nods replied, Yes.  Three
this life's howling gale?  Starbuck!  I'll not have the Burtons hoisted.
this sea, whose gently awful stirrings seem to speak of some hidden soul
this seam?  Oh!  that is the one, sir!  Said I not all seams and dents but
this soliloquizer on guard there, and talking all the time to keep himself
this time it was that my poor pagan companion, and fast bosom-friend,
this.  What was that now about one leg standing in three places, and all
this: that the gods themselves are not for ever glad.  The ineffaceable, sad
those of Nantucket, all the more congenial to him, being a whaleman, that
those orphans whose unwedded mothers die in bearing them: the secret of our
those screws, and let's finish it before the resurrection fellow comes
thou callest thyself a right good workmanlike workman, eh!  Well, then, will
thou could'st, blacksmith, glad enough would I lay my head upon thy anvil,
thou makest, I shall nevertheless feel another leg in the same identical
thou sneezing about?  Bone is rather dusty, sir.  Take the hint, then; and
though for some time past a number of these whales, not less than 13,000 have
though thou only see'st it here in my flesh, it has worked down into the bone
thought Ahab, while even the highest earthly felicities ever have a certain
thought of his case was forcibly shown by a curious favor he asked.  He called
thoughts than those, whose mysterious shades you saw creeping over the face
thousand leagues of blue.  There is, one knows not what sweet mystery about
three places standing in one hell --how was that?  Oh!  I don't wonder he
thus far been accumulated
thwart of his boat that his ivory leg had
till there seemed but little left of him but his frame and tattooing.  But as
to beware of Starbuck; thou wouldst but laugh; but let Ahab beware of Ahab;
to do some little job for them; altering, or repairing, or new shaping their
to every stroke of the clenched hands of the crew.  On the quarter-deck, the
to that ever-contracting, dropping circle ashore, who, for any reason,
to the starry archipelagoes; for not only do they believe that the stars are
to their stowage.  To be short, among whalemen, the harpooneers are the
too calmly, sanely woful to me.  In no Paradise myself, I am impatient of
too was standing on his quarter-deck, shaggy and black, with a stubborn
too, but not to all; --look here, they burn; but thou--thou liv'st among them
too, of water, and bread, and beef, and shooks of staves, and iron bundles of
transferringly measured on it the exact length the coffin was to be, and then
twist and wrench, that though it still remained entire, and to all
unaccountable, cunning life-principle in him; this it was, that kept him a
uncontinented seas, interflow with the blue heavens; and so form the white
understand somewhat now.  Yes, I have heard something curious on that score,
unmanageably winces under the unconcluded operation; whirling round the
unresting eye; all thy strange mummeries not unmeaningly blended with the
unsignifying pettiness lurking in them, but, at bottom, all heart-woes, a
upon him there; where, stripped to his woollen drawers, the tattooed savage
upon the anvil --the red mass sending off the sparks in thick hovering
upon these almost final waters, and gliding towards the Japanese
us that at one hunting the King of Siam took
usage as it had?  I think so, sir.  And I suppose thou can'st smoothe
using the musket for a staff, with an iron brow he paced to and fro in the
vainly warning the infatuated old world from the flood.  Tierce after tierce,
vales; the mild blue hill-sides; as over these there steals the hush, the
valuable sperm, but additional supplemental casks had been bartered for,
various parts so manifold, was his vice-bench; a long rude ponderous table
various sizes, but also screw-drivers, cork-screws, tweezers, awls, pens,
various weapons and boat furniture.  Often he would be surrounded by an eager
vessels, he was, to a certain off-handed, practical extent, alike experienced
vice-bench, the carpenter for convenience' sake and general reference, now
vice.  Slabs of ivory, leather straps, pads, screws, and various tools of all
views to safety, now swim the seas in immense caravans, so that to a large
voyage, had been cut from the aboriginal groves of the Lackaday islands, and
warrior, stretched him out in his canoe, and so left him to be floated away
was a stript abstract; an unfractioned integral; uncompromised as a new-born
was crawling about amid that dampness and slime, like a green spotted lizard
was moreover unhesitatingly expert in all manner of conflicting aptitudes,
was no duplicate; hence, he now comes in person on this stage.  Like all
was shown; and Starbuck went down into the cabin to report this unfavorable
waters into the Pacific.  And so Starbuck found Ahab with a general chart of
waters of the world, the Indian ocean and Atlantic being but its arms.  The
waves should rise and fall, and ebb and flow unceasingly; for here, millions
weeks after Ahab's harpoon had been welded.  It was a Nantucket ship, the
went a-whaling.
were full of gold coins.  I, too, want a harpoon made; one that a thousand
were pumping the ship next morning; and lo!  no inconsiderable oil came up
were ready for it yet in that direction.  Overhearing the indignant but
were seen standing round her huge try-pots, which, covered with the
whale, or a gale, or some violent, ungovernable, unintelligent destroyer of
whale-bone whales no longer haunt many grounds in former years abounding with
whales with the humped herds of buffalo, which, not forty years ago,
what an old fellow gets now for working in dead lumber.  Saw a live tree, and
whatever small outward clingings might have originally pertained to him?  He
when captain ahab came along, carrying in his hand a small rusty-looking
when this strange circumstance was made known aft, the carpenter was at once
when thou art dead, never bury thyself under living people's noses.  Sir?
where the blacksmith is at work.) Drat the file, and drat the bone!  That is
which also hummingly soliloquizes; or rather, his body was a sentry-box and
who file old jaws and shinbones.  Let's try another.  Aye, now, this works
who were alive seventy-five years ago; and adding this countless host to the
whole bulk about; makes all coasts one bay to it; seems the tide-beating
why mayest not thou, carpenter, feel the fiery pains of hell for ever, and
wide-rolling watery prairies and Potters' Fields of all four continents, the
wife, and three blithe, ruddy children; every Sunday went to a
wild cries they raised, as the now useless brick and mortar were being hurled
will serve my turn.  What art thou thrusting that thief-catcher into my face
will shortly trouble us so little for evermore, the poor fellows ought to be
will still survive, and rearing upon the topmost crest of the equatorial
windlass for a few indolent days (but eating with a vigorous appetite) he
with Yojo between, he called for the coffin lid (hatch he called it) to be
with a certain grizzled wittiness; such as might have served to pass the time
with an attentive eye.  He then called for his harpoon, had the wooden stock
with the pain; have I been but forging my own branding-iron, then?  Pray
with the water; the casks below must have sprung a bad leak.  Much concern
with them from the Polynesian Isles; while suspended in an ornamented boat,
without a body?  Hah!  Good Lord!  Truly, sir, if it comes to that, I must
without a scorch.  Because I am scorched all over, Captain Ahab, answered
without delay set about making a new leg, and directed the mates to see him
woe on woe!  Oh, Death, why canst thou not sometimes be timely?  Hadst thou
wondrous and fearful in man, never yet was put into words or books.  And the
wondrous extermination was the spear of man; yet the far different nature of
wood, like the rich war-wood of his native isle; and upon inquiry, he had
wood.  At all times except when whales were alongside, this bench was securely
word, it was Queequeg's conceit, that if a man
work of a departed prophet and seer of his island, who, by those hieroglyphic
world; and the thousand harpoons and lances darted along all continental
would have slain not forty, but forty thousand and more buffaloes; a fact
would seem to argue some uncommon vivacity of intelligence.  But not precisely
would weld his own iron.  As, then, with regular, gasping hems, he hammered
wrist: the carpenter concocts a soothing lotion.  Stubb longed for vermillion
year.  What we come twenty thousand miles to get is worth saving, sir.  So
years (the latter part of the last century, say) these Leviathans, in small
yet two to the soul.  Where thou feelest tingling life; there, exactly there,
yoke of fiends could not part, Perth; something that will stick in a whale
you don't get this dust; amputate a live bone, and you don't get it
you rise the harder you toil.  So with poor Queequeg, who, as harpooneer,
young bride's eye! --Tell me not of thy teeth-tiered sharks, and thy
