
































    
    
     A Voyage round Cape Horn into the South Seas, for the purpose of extending
     A word concerning an incident in the last
     Advancement of Learning you will find some curious whales.  But quitting all
     I shall ere long
     If to Starbuck the apparition of
     Out of the trunk, the branches grow; out
     PICTURES OF WHALING SCENES In connexion with the monstrous pictures of
     Slowly wading through the meadows of brit, the
     Steering north-eastward from the Crozetts, we
     Stubb's whale had been killed some
     Whale; Colnett's, Huggins's, Frederick Cuvier's, and Beale's.  In the
     What was it, Sir?  said Flask.  The great live squid, which they say, few
     With reference to the whaling scene shortly to
     a steak, ere I sleep!  You, Daggoo!  overboard you go, and cut me one from
     all that would not one jot advance his grand, monomaniac object.  Very soon
     and the ball, and the explosion; so the graceful repose of the line, as it
     and, as for the narwhale, one glimpse at it is enough to amaze one, that in
     antediluvian Hindoo.  It is Guido's picture of Perseus rescuing Andromeda
     caused by the vast drifts of brit continually floating in those latitudes,
     intelligent public of schoolboys.  Then, again, in
     so that we seemed to be sailing through boundless fields of ripe and golden
     terror, than though seated before your evening fire with a poker, and not a
     this is a thing which carries more of true terror than any other aspect of
     this story is in substance really true?  It is so passing wonderful!  Did you
     thousands on thousands of sharks, swarming round the dead leviathan,
     trace out great whales in the starry heavens, and boats in pursuit of them;
     with broken back, would correctly represent the noble animal itself in all
 "Also bear with all of us, sir sailor; for we all join in Don Sebastian's
 "So help me Heaven, and on my honor the story I have told ye, gentlemen, is
 (in the act of cutting-in) hove over to the monster as if to a quay; and a
"but I know a worthy priest near by, who will quickly procure one for me.  I
(that is to say, the Right whale), even Scoresby, a long experienced man as
, Bernard Germain,
, and hoisted on deck.  I doubt not the
, entitled A Whaling Voyage to
, he
, there are plates of an alleged whale and a narwhale.  I do not wish
-- Stand up, and give it to him!  He now has to drop and secure his oar,
-- There!  there again!  there she breaches!  right ahead!  The White Whale,
.. < chapter lix 4  SQUID >
.. < chapter lv 7  OF THE MONSTROUS PICTURES OF WHALES >
.. < chapter lvi 6  OF THE LESS ERRONEOUS PICTURES OF WHALES, AND THE TRUE >
.. < chapter lvii 23  OF WHALES IN PAINT; IN TEETH; IN WOOD; IN >
.. < chapter lviii 11  BRIT >
.. < chapter lx 26  THE LINE >
.. < chapter lxi 17  STUBB KILLS A WHALE >
.. < chapter lxii 19  THE DART >
.. < chapter lxiii 2  THE CROTCH >
.. < chapter lxiv 16  STUBB'S SUPPER >
.. <p 241n. >
.. <p 260 >
.. <p 261 >
.. <p 261 >
.. <p 262 >
.. <p 263 >
.. <p 264 >
.. <p 265 >
.. <p 266 >
.. <p 266 >
.. <p 267 >
.. <p 268 >
.. <p 269 >
.. <p 269 >
.. <p 270 >
.. <p 271 >
.. <p 272 >
.. <p 272 >
.. <p 272n. >
.. <p 273 >
.. <p 274 >
.. <p 275 >
.. <p 275 >
.. <p 276 >
.. <p 277 >
.. <p 277 >
.. <p 278 >
.. <p 279 >
.. <p 280 >
.. <p 281 >
.. <p 281 >
.. <p 282 >
.. <p 283 >
.. <p 283n. >
.. <p 284 >
.. <p 284n. >
.. <p 285 >
.. <p 286 >
.. <p 286 >
.. <p 287 >
.. <p 288 >
.. <p 289 >
.. <p 289 >
.. <p 290 >
.. <p 291 >
.. <p 292 >
Again the phantom went down, but on re-appearing once more, with a
Ahab said nothing; turning his boat, he sailed back to the vessel; the rest
Ahab stood on the bowsprit, and with one hand pushed far behind in readiness
American fishery almost entirely superseded hemp as a material for
Auto-da-Fes in Lima now," said one of the company to another: "I fear our
Browne are pretty correct in contour; but they are wretchedly engraved.  That
But his wild screams were answered by others quite as wild.  Kee-hee!
But it was only the sound they made as they parted the brit which at all
By experiment its one and fifty yarns will each suspend a weight of one
China, four or five laborers on the foot-path will draw a bulky freighted
Christian painter's portrait of this fish; for he succeeds no better than the
Circassian to behold.  The whale line is only two thirds of an inch in
Consider!  Most of the scientific drawings have been taken from the
Count de Lacepede,
Don Sebastian; but may I also beg that you will be particular in procuring
Don." "Then I entreat you, tell me if to the best of your own convictions,
Frederick Cuvier's Sperm Whale is not a Sperm Whale, but a squash.  Of course,
Gate leading from the Thames by water into the Tower.  Then, there are the
Go and gaze upon all the paintings in Europe, and where will you find such a
God keep thee!  Push not off from that isle, thou canst never return!
Harris's collection of voyages there are some plates of whales extracted from
Holy Evangelists in the Golden Inn, gentlemen?" "Nay," said Don Sebastian;
Hydrus and the Flying Fish.  With a frigate's anchors for my bridle-bitts and
In the distance, a great white mass lazily rose, and rising higher and
It is worse; for you cannot sit motionless in the heart of these perils,
It will be seen in some other place of what a very light substance the entire
Kee-hee!  yelled Daggoo, straining forwards and backwards on his seat,
King of the Cannibals; and ready at any moment to rebel against him.  Now,
Leviathan partly merged in grass, which of a windy day breaks against them in
Mr. Stubb, said Daggoo.  Yes; both pipes smoked out!  and withdrawing his
Northern Lights, and the successive armed kings and Emperors dash by, like a
Pacifics seemed passed as they shot on their way, till at length the whale
Partly to show the indispensableness of this act, it may here be stated,
Pequod still held on her way north-eastward towards the island of Java; a
Prodromus whales of the old Scotch Sibbald, and Jonah's whale, as depicted
Richard III.  whales, with dromedary humps, and very savage; breakfasting on
SHEET-IRON; IN STONE; IN MOUNTAINS; IN STARS On Tower-hill, as you go down
Scoresby; but they are drawn on too small a scale to convey a desirable
Sperm Whale-teeth, or ladies' busks wrought out of the Right Whale-bone, and
Spitzbergen in the ship Jonas in the Whale, Peter Peterson of Friesland,
Squid.  The manner in which the Bishop describes it, as alternately rising
Start her, Tash, my boy --start her, all; but keep cool, keep cool--
Steelkilt since the death of Radney."
Tahitians, who had been somewhat used to the sea.  Chartering a small native
That part of the sea known among whalemen as the Brazil Banks does not bear
The ancient whale-cry upon first sighting a whale from the mast-head, still
There, luck befriended him; two ships were about to sail for France, and
Venetian blind in their mouths, was in that manner separated from the water
Vishnu in the form of leviathan, learnedly known as the Matse Avatar.  But
Whale is depicted in full majesty of might, just risen beneath the boat from
Who Garnery the painter is, or was, I know not.  But my life for it he was
With the same marvellous patience, and with the same single shark's tooth,
a Dutch book of voyages, A. D.
a Picture of a Physeter or Spermaceti whale, drawn by scale from one killed
a dusky, dark fellow, a sort of Indian; but Manilla is as a golden-haired
a few inches of the sleepers' hearts.  Peering over the side you could just
a great naturalist, published a scientific systemized whale book, wherein are
a hempen blue smoke now jetted up and mingled with the steady fumes from his
a moment, stood thoughtfully eyeing the vast corpse he had made.
a nest of anacondas, as if blindly to clutch at any hapless object within
a stiff full length of the Greenland whale, and three or four delicate
a surf of green surges.  Then, again, in mountainous countries where the
abounding a smoke in the chimney, you would think there must be a brave
absolute body the whale is moored alongside the whale-ship so that he can be
according to the accompanying scale, to a full grown sperm whale, would make
account for those repeated whaling disasters --some few of which are casually
accounts.  It is a quiet noon-scene among the isles of the Pacific; a French
accuracy.  At some old gable-roofed country houses you will see brass whales
accursed shark alone can in any generic respect be said to bear comparative
accustomed cry, as the great fish slowly and regularly spouted the sparkling
act of feeding, the spermaceti whale obtains his whole food in unknown zones
adapted to our present purpose, nevertheless deserves mention on other
advert to those curious imaginary portraits of him which even down to the
after dart into the flying fish; at the word of command, the boat
again resumed his cruisings.  Where Steelkilt now is, gentlemen, none know;
again, and in due time arrived at Tahiti, his own place of destination.
against his wrist in rowing; and also passing between the men, as they
against the rocks, and leaves them there side by side with the split wrecks
air of the day.  And now abating in his flurry, the whale once more rolled
all engaging one unusually strong, active, and knowing whale; when owing to
all fins.  Stubb and Tashtego here changed places -- stem for stern --a
all raging commotion; but behind, in admirable artistic contrast, is the
all swiftly pulling towards their prey.  Soon it went down, and while, with
alluded to on a previous page deserves independent mention.  It is a notched
alluring jet would be seen.  But one transparent blue morning, when a
along the deck, and thrust rattling out of the port-holes.  But by those
alongside the barnacled flank of a large running Right Whale, that rolls his
alternately sit at the opposite gunwales, to the leaded chocks or grooves in
alternately sterning out of the way of the whale's horrible wallow, and then
an Ethiopian hue, glistening in the sun's rays like a mirror.  But lazily
an announcement immediately followed by Stubb's producing his match and
an enemy's sharp two-edged sword by the blade, and that enemy all the time
analogy to him.  But though, to landsmen in general, the native inhabitants
ancient extant portrait anyways purporting to be the whale's, is to be found
and aft, to the imminent jeopardy of themselves and every one else.  It is
and full of barbaric spirit and suggestiveness, as the prints of that fine
and in those days, and even down to a comparatively late period, dolphins
and is then
and joined the chase against the starry Cetus far beyond the utmost stretch of
and lost.  For, when the line is darting out, to be seated then in the boat,
and other embellishments of some ancient books you will at times meet with
and prophesies of the storm, is perhaps more awful than the storm itself;
and round
and sinking, with some other particulars he narrates, in all this the two
and some ten or twenty fathoms (called box-line) being coiled upon the box in
and soundings there, but because of this remarkable meadow-like appearance,
and taken from paintings by one Garnery.  Respectively, they represent
and tasselled, the sharks, also, with their jewel-hilted mouths, are
and turning over on their backs as they scooped out huge globular pieces of
and were stationary for a while, their vast black forms looked more like
and yells the keels cut the sea.  Meanwhile, Stubb retaining his place in the
and, like the six burghers of Calais before King Edward, the six men
antique vases.  Though universally denominated a dolphin, I nevertheless call
any leviathan's articulated bones.  In fact, as the great Hunter says, the
any stagnant calm; when the long burnished sun-glade on the waters seemed a
any unknown instant the harpoon may be darted, and all these horrible
apparently precedes
application.  As with the Hawaiian savage, so with the white sailor-savage.
are but one half-inch in thickness; for the bottom of the whale-boat is like
are exposed; the lower end terminating in an eye-splice or loop coming up
are these sea battle-pieces of Garnery.  The natural aptitude of the French for
arrangement is indispensable for common safety's sake; for were the lower end
arrived, and the captain was forced to enlist some of the more civilized
as a backwoodsman swings his rifle from the wall.  It is customary to have two
as if that capstan were a sideboard.  Nor was Stubb the only banqueter on
as silently following.  Whatever superstitions the sperm whalemen in general
as the vacant profile of the whale; which, so far as picturesqueness of
as they will not fail to elucidate several most important, however intricate
as we eighteen men with our thirty-six arms, and one hundred and eighty
as when long filled with thoughts of war the Eastern nations saw armies locked
assault.  Yes, a mighty change had come over the fish.  All alive to his
at any rate; and his stump as unquestionable a stump as any you will find in
at one and the same time.  In this straining, bawling state, then, with his
attached to the harpoon.  In these instances, the whale of course is shifted
attached to the short-warp --the rope which is immediately connected with the
attacks on the Sperm and Right Whale.  In the first engraving a noble Sperm
augment; yet for ever and for ever, to the crack of doom, the sea will
authentic abortions; that is, from a Chinese drawing.  And what sort of
back to the fish, all at once the exhausted harpooneer hears the exciting cry
background, both drooping together in the breezeless air.  The effect is very
backs.  In another plate, the prodigious blunder is made of representing the
bare, blackened elevations of the soil; even so, often, with him, who for the
be described, as well as for the better understanding of all similar scenes
be found among the oldest Hindoo, Egyptian, and Grecian sculptures.  For ever
be so good as to bring the priest also, Don?" "Though there are no
be too fastidious in your curiosity touching this Leviathan.
beached, and drawn up to the roots of the cocoa-nut trees, Steelkilt made sail
because the boat is rocking like a cradle, and you are pitched one way and
becomes impossible for the harpooneer, however lightning-like in his
before any of them actually came into being.  No wonder then, that in some
before reaching that point, it blisteringly passed through and through both
being more tight than a harpstring, you would have thought the craft had two
believe that such bulky masses of overgrowth can possibly be instinct, in all
belong, but only as the Anak of the tribe.
below the surface; and only by inference is it that any one can tell of what,
best be likened to the hollow made by a carpenter in countersinking for a
betrayed him; whichever way it might have been, no sooner did he distinctly
better than theirs; but, by great odds, Beale's is the best.  All Beale's
black weedy bulk in the sea like some mossy rock-slide from the Patagonian
block towards the tub, so as in the act of coiling to free it from all
boat in its complicated coils, twisting and writhing around it in almost
boat up to him, while yet the boat was being towed on.  Soon ranging up by
boat, hurriedly pushing off from this scene of activity, is about giving
boiling spray, so that the imperilled craft, instantly dropping astern, had
bow of his hoisted boat, then you quick see him 'parm whale.  The next day
bows; a ceaseless whirling eddy in her wake; and, at the slightest motion
bowsman!  and, facing round towards the whale, all hands began pulling the
boys --that's all.  Start her!  Woo-hoo!  Wa-hee!  screamed the Gay-Header in
brilliance and beauty of many of its most remorseless tribes, as the dainty
brine into the air.  clear away the boats!  luff!  cried Ahab.  And obeying
bulk he assigns it.  By some naturalists who have vaguely heard rumors of the
bulwarks.  Vacantly eyeing the heaving whale for a moment, he issued the usual
business, carrying the line high aloft and then reeving it downwards through a
business.  But, in general, they toil with their jack-knives alone; and, with
but in many scientific presentations of him.  Now, by all odds, the most
but in so important a matter it was certainly an oversight not to have
but so as to form one round, cheese-shaped mass of densely bedded sheaves,
but upon the island of Nantucket, the widow of Radney still turns to the sea
but with such a steady tranquillity, and making so few ripples as he swam,
by a few rapid blows against the gunwale, then again and again sent it into
by his living hunters.  But, taken for all in all, by far the finest, though
by no means adds to the rope's durability or strength, however much it may
by some experienced whaleman.  The French are the lads for painting action.
by the head to the stern, and by the tail to the bows, the whale now lies
candelabra in the library of one of his executors, correctly conveys the idea
canted over her spasmodic gunwale into the sea.  Thus they rushed; each man
captain had this veracious picture taken for the benefit of his marines.  To
captain, why did ye not give us Jonah looking out of that eye!  Nor are the
captured and a corpse.  Consider, now, how it must be in the case of four boats
carrying on eternal war since the world began.  Consider all this; and then
case of ordinary ropes; for while tar, as ordinarily used, makes the hemp
caught nigh the paddle-wheels of an ocean steamer.  Thus, the foreground is
chapter.  According to the invariable usage of the fishery, the whale-boat
charge of crowned centaurs?  Not wholly unworthy of a place in that gallery,
chase to whales in the distance.  The harpoons and lances lie levelled for
chronicled --of this man or that man being taken out of the boat by the line,
chronicled them.  Nor when expandingly lifted by your subject, can you fail to
churches you will see sheet-iron whales placed there for weather-cocks; but
churning, as if cautiously seeking to feel after some gold watch that the
circumstanced without a shudder that makes the very marrow in his bones to
civilization inevitably restores a man to that condition in which God placed
clanking links, the vast corpse itself, not the ship, is to be moored.  Tied
cliffs.  His jets are erect, full, and black like soot; so that from so
close under our lee, not forty fathoms off, a gigantic Sperm Whale lay rolling
closed eyes; like vices my hands grasped the shrouds; some invisible,
coils of box line (mentioned in a preceding chapter) making this feat, in
coins, the dolphin was drawn in scales of chain-armor like Saladin's, and a
come.  His three whales are as good whales as were ever published in Wapping,
coming to specialties, where, for example, does the ocean furnish any fish
completely disengaged from everything.  This arrangement of the lower end is
composing the crew pull into the jaws of death, with a halter around every
connect the ideas of mildness and repose with the first sight of the
conquest, betrayed an unusual but still good-natured excitement.  Such an
consecutive great battles of France; where every sword seems a flash of the
consideration will teach, that however baby man may brag of his science and
contains it in itself, as the seemingly harmless rifle holds the fatal powder,
contortions be put in play like ringed lightnings; he cannot be thus
contour between a young sucking whale and a full-grown Platonian Leviathan;
contracting his spout-hole, with sharp, cracking, agonized respirations.  At
convenient to the sailor for common ship use; yet, not only would the ordinary
corpse in the sea; and it seemed hardly to budge at all, except at long
correspond.  But much abatement is necessary with respect to the incredible
could hook it out.  But that gold watch he sought was the innermost life of
counted upon the honor of the capture.  It was obvious, now, that the whale
countries of India, the stranger at a distance will sometimes pass on the
covering.  However recklessly the whale may sometimes serve us, said
crabs, shell-fish, and other sea candies and maccaroni, which the Right Whale
craft, takes his proper station in the bows of the boat.  Now, I care not who
creatures glide under water, unapparent for the most part, and treacherously
creatures which itself hath spawned.  Like a savage tigress that tossing in
critical ice, which will bear up a considerable distributed weight, but
cucumbers is the word --easy, easy --only start her like grim death and
curious things about this Leviathan, that his skeleton gives very little idea
cuttle-fish, to which, indeed, in certain external respects it would seem to
dangling, sharp-edged
dart, the heavy implement has to be flung to the distance of twenty or thirty
darted without recovery.  All these particulars are faithfully narrated here,
dashed the sea-water into it.  More turns were taken, so that the line began
dead, some vague dissatisfaction, or impatience, or despair, seemed working
deck, such is then the outlandish, eel-like, limbered, varying shape of him,
deck-table are
declare it to be the largest animated thing in the ocean, yet very few of
deficiency, because it is by such pictures only, when at all well done,
deformities floundering in seas of blood and blue paint.  but these manifold
defray the current expenses of the war (at least before realizing the
degree of exactness.  So there is no earthly way of finding out precisely what
denizens of more stirring waters, than those off the Rio de la Plata, or the
dentistical-looking implements, specially intended for the skrimshandering
designated by Stubb; comprising the tapering extremity of the body.  About
destroyed the wrecked ships of last year.  Yea, foolish mortals, Noah's flood
differ the sea and the land, that a miracle upon one is not a miracle upon
disasters have immemorially and indiscriminately befallen tens and hundreds
disgorge what are supposed to be the detached arms of the squid; some of them
distance from the ship.  It was a calm; so, forming a tandem of three boats,
does, he would not stop there, for the doomed boat would infallibly be
double, in order to bring down his centre of gravity.  Whole Atlantics and
down his motionless flanks into the sea.  His heart had burst!  He's dead,
dragged down after him into the profundity of the sea; and in that case no
drawings of this whale are good, excepting the middle figure in the picture of
effect is concerned, is about tantamount to sketching the profile of a
either practically conversant with his subject, or else marvellously tutored
either sensation or instinct; but undulated there on the billows, an
element it is a thing eternally impossible for mortal man to hoist
elsewhere presented, I have here to speak of the magical, sometimes horrible
embellished shape of many species of sharks.  Consider, once more, the
encompassed by all the horrors of the half known life.
engravings of boat hooks, chopping knives, and grapnels; and with the
equal to three tons.  In length, the common sperm whale-line measures
ere the boats were down, majestically turning, he swam away to the leeward,
escape being made a Mazeppa of, and run away with where the all-seeing sun
eternally stove and sunk by him.  Wherefore, it seems to me you had best not
even so these monsters swam, making a strange, grassy, cutting sound; and
ever; yet not a modern sun ever sets, but in precisely the same manner the
every direction.  All the oarsmen are involved in its perilous contortions; so
evinced his customary activity, to call it so; yet now that the creature was
except under circumstances obvious to any fisherman.  I know that this would
excite the civil scepticism of some parlor men, is admirably correct and
exhibited
expected to pull his oar meanwhile to the uttermost; indeed, he is expected
extending the entire length of the upper part of the boat, and from its now
fairly stepped upon there.  It may be worth while, therefore, previously to
fancied, that from the naked skeleton of the stranded whale, accurate hints
fasces of harpoons for spurs, would I could mount that whale and leap the
feelings that you do those of the shore.  For though some old naturalists have
feet of Korah and his company the live ground opened and swallowed them up for
feet.  But however prolonged and exhausting the chase, the harpooneer is
fell in with vast meadows of brit, the minute, yellow substance, upon which
fewer glimpses of porpoises, dolphins, flying-fish, and other vivacious
fifty fair chances for a dart, not five are successful; no wonder that so
fine, when considered with reference to its presenting the hardy fishermen
first boat always hovers at hand to assist its consort.  Second: This
first time beholds this species of the leviathans of the sea.  And even when
foam; and the tall form of Tashtego at the steering oar crouching almost
for lowering.  The four boats were soon on the water; Ahab's in advance, and
for, indeed, the calm is but the wrapper and envelope of the storm; and
forged along, as if laden with pig-lead in bulk.  Darkness came on; but
forgetfulness altogether came over me, I had noticed that the seamen at the
fro I idly swayed in what seemed an enchanted air.  No resolution could
from a bluff-bowed sluggish galliot into a sharp-pointed New York
from his mouth.  Like desperadoes they tugged and they strained, till the
from his trance into that unspeakable thing called his flurry, the monster
from some lucky point of view you will catch passing glimpses of the profiles
from the attack of a Sperm Whaler like the Pequod, with open jaws sluggishly
from the bottom against the side of the tub, and hanging over its edge
from the sea-monster or whale.  Where did Guido get the model of such a
from the spiracle of the whale, and vehement puff after puff from the mouth
from within, even but of a little finger, the vibrating, cracking craft
frontispiece, boats attacking Sperm Whales, though no doubt calculated to
full-lengths, the living Leviathan has never yet fairly floated himself for
furnishing a rest for the wooden extremity of the harpoon, whose other
gallery of living and breathing commotion on canvas, as in that triumphal
general thing, and according to the great military maxim, make the enemy
gentle air impelling her keel, so that in the surrounding serenity her three
get it from an unquestionable source?  Bear with me if I seem to press."
give it compactness and gloss.  Of late years the Manilla rope has in the
glassy level of a sea becalmed, the drooping unstarched sails of the
gleamed.  It seemed not a whale; and yet is this Moby Dick?  thought Daggoo.
go for it; but are you well advised?  this may grow too serious." "Will you
going a whaling yourself; but by so doing, you run no small risk of being
golden finger laid across them, enjoining some secresy; when the slippered
good a one.  In the second engraving, the boat is in the act of drawing
gracious agency preserved me; with a shock I came back to life.  And lo!
great a trophy of human perseverance as a Latin lexicon.  For, with but a bit
grinning devils, and raise the buried dead perpendicular out of their graves,
habit accomplish? --Gayer sallies, more merry mirth, better jokes, and brighter
had at length become aware of his pursuers.  All silence of cautiousness was
half-inch white cedar of the whale-boat, when thus hung in hangman's nooses;
hall at Versailles; where the beholder fights his way, pell-mell, through the
hands.  Tumbled into the water, it accordingly is in such cases; the spare
harpoon and the lance, and no rowing whatever should be expected of him,
harpoon, by your side.
harpoon; but previous to that connexion, the short-warp goes through sundry
harpooneers of this world must start to their feet from out of idleness, and
harpoons reposing in the crotch, respectively called the first and second
have connected with the sight of this object, certain it is, that a glimpse
have tried it.  For one, I cannot bawl very heartily and work very recklessly
he elevates it in the air, and invariably does so when going at his utmost
he never had the benefit of a whaling voyage (such men seldom have), but
head, and such the tapering cut-water formation of the lower part, that by
headsman should stay in the bows from first to last; he should both dart the
helmeted head like St.  George's; ever since then has something of the same
hidden beneath the loveliest tints of azure.  Consider also the devilish
high broken cliffs masses of rock lie strewn in fantastic groupings upon the
higher, and disentangling itself from the azure, at last gleamed before our
him bodily into the air, so as to preserve all his mighty swells and
him is out of sight, like a launched line-of-battle ship; and out of that
him, i.  e.  what is called savagery.  Your true whale-hunter is as much a
himself could never pierce you out.  Again: as the profound calm which only
himself h.  durand.  one of them, though not precisely
his eager glance in the direction indicated aloft by the outstretched
his flank, Stubb, firmly planting his knee in the clumsy cleat, darted dart
his own Perseus Descending, make out one whit better.  The huge corpulence
his own order, he dashed the helm down before the helmsman could handle the
his portrait.  The living whale, in his full majesty and significance, is
his small!  Here be it known, that though these wild fishermen do not, as a
his sounding had elapsed, the whale rose again, and being now in advance of
his vapory jet, the whale looked like a portly burgher smoking his pipe of a
his wonderful patience of industry.  An ancient Hawaiian war-club or
holding its place.  The boat now flew through the boiling water like a shark
horribly wallowed in his blood, over-wrapped himself in impenetrable, mad,
hot springs and cold, Saratoga and Baden-Baden, come bubbling up from his
human hand, minus only the thumb.  This fin has four regular bone-fingers,
humorous Stubb one day, he can never be truly said to handle us without
hundred and twenty pounds; so that the whole rope will bear a strain nearly
hung by the tail for knockers to the road-side door.  When the porter is
hurled.  Stern all!  The oarsmen backed water; the same moment something
igniting his pipe, for now a respite was granted.  After the full interval of
impression.  He has but one picture of whaling scenes, and this is a sad
in Nantucket, and New Bedford, and Sag Harbor, you will come across lively
in a slight festoon over the bows, and is then passed inside the boat again;
in battle among the clouds.  Thus at the North have I chased Leviathan round
in blood, which bubbled and seethed for furlongs behind in their wake.  The
in full play, when every flying beam, and shaft, and wheel, is grazing you.
in general, is it possible to secure it again until the whale is fairly
in him; as if the sight of that dead body reminded him that Moby Dick was
in his wake, and causing the slight boat to rock in the swells like a skiff
in some details not the most correct, presentations of whales and whaling
in substance and its great items, true.  I know it to be true; it happened on
in that prow, for that one single incomputable flash of time, you behold an
in the famous cavern-pagoda of Elephanta, in India.  The Brahmins maintain
in the prints of old Bibles and the cuts of old primers.  What shall be said
in the water like the capsized hull of a frigate, his broad, glossy back, of
in-shore ground off Peru.  It was my turn to stand at the foremast-head; and
inch of water.  It has a sort of howdah on its back, and its distended tusked
inform us.  As for the sign-painters' whales seen in the streets hanging over
ingenious contrivances they elaborately carve out of the rough material, in
innumerable long arms radiating from its centre, and curling and twisting like
inserted into the starboard gunwale near the bow, for the purpose of
instantly after the other into the same whale; so that if, in the coming drag,
instantly at hand to its hurler, who snatches it up as readily from its rest
insult and murder him, and pulverize the stateliest, stiffest frigate he can
integrity) is being crunched by the jaws of the foremost whale.  Any time
intemperately fond of the whale as a flavorish thing to his palate.  A steak,
interior of the sperm whale's enormous head consists.  Though apparently the
intervals; good evidence was hereby furnished of the enormousness of the mass
intricacies, and while straining his utmost at the oar, bethink him that at
iron is already connected with the line, and the line is running, hence that
irons.  But these two harpoons, each by its own cord, are both connected with
is like being seated in the midst of the manifold whizzings of a steam-engine
is not his fault though.  Of the Right Whale, the best outline pictures are in
is not yet subsided; two thirds of the fair world it yet covers.  Wherein
it of an additional line from a neighboring boat, in case the stricken whale
it round the loggerhead, whence, by reason of its increased rapid circlings,
it sank, once more it slowly rose.  Almost forgetting for the moment all
it.  This peculiarity is strikingly evinced in the head, as in some part of
its tub.  Some harpooneers will consume almost an entire morning in this
its undashed pride of hull and spars.  Though elephants have stood for their
jeopardy, he was going head out; that part obliquely projecting from the
junk at the rate of a mile an hour; but this grand argosy we towed heavily
keels -- one cleaving the water, the other the air --as the boat churned
keep shouting at the top of one's compass, while all the other
know that when the second iron is thrown overboard, it thenceforth becomes a
labelled with Hands off!  you cannot examine them closely enough to decide
lance (by the line attached to it), Stubb straightened it again and again,
last, gush after gush of clotted red gore, as if it had been the purple lees
latitude and longitude of your first stand-point, else so chance-like are
least so far as could be known on deck, Stubb, his second mate, flushed with
leaving behind them endless swaths of blue upon the yellow sea.
leaving so much as a widow.  That same ocean rolls now; that same ocean
leg, or entire body off, the utmost precaution is used in stowing the line in
length and breadth, of a glancing cream-color, lay floating on the water,
leviathan is rushing through the deep, leaving tons of tumultuous white curds
life-like in its general effect.  Some of the Sperm Whale drawings in J. Ross
lifeless masses of rock than anything else.  And as in the great hunting
like Ontario Indians on the gunwales of the boats,
like a mad battle steed that has lost its rider, the masterless ocean
like a mug of ale, as it were, from the one boat to the other; though the
like a pacing tiger in his cage.  Ka-la!  Koo-loo!  howled Queequeg, as if
like a rearing horse.  From the ship, the smoke of the torments of the boiling
like the tapering tail of an anaconda, than the broad palms of the true
line.  An instant before, Stubb had swiftly caught two additional turns with
live sea swallows up ships and crews.  But not only is the sea such a foe to
lively lads with the pencil those Chinese are, many queer cups and saucers
lodged in their fleshy covering, as the human fingers in an artificial
logger-head there, is again carried forward the entire length of the boat,
long sharp lance into the fish, and kept it there, carefully churning and
loosened sails of the ship, and the long leaves of the palms in the
mad yeast which he brewed.  Start her, start her, my men!  Don't hurry
main and mizen mast-heads were already drowsy.  So that at last all three of
maintained that all creatures of the land are of their kind in the sea; and
maintains the contrary, but all this is both foolish and unnecessary.  The
majority of failures in the fishery, it has not by any means been so much
make; nevertheless, by the continual repetition of these
man that is tossed to them; and though, while the valiant butchers over the
man who is an alien to it, but it is also a fiend to its own offspring;
many hapless harpooneers are madly cursed and disrated; no wonder that some
many ship owners, whaling is but a losing concern; for it is the harpooneer
master.  In one of those plates the whales, like great rafts of logs, are
may be derived touching his true form.  Not at all.  For it is one of the more
me.  And beneath the effulgent Antarctic skies I have boarded the Argo-Navis,
mean no disparagement to the excellent voyager (I honor him for a veteran),
men.  And all the while, jet after jet of white smoke was agonizingly shot
mention but one thing about it, let me say that it has an eye which applied,
mere skeleton of the whale bears the same relation to the fully invested and
microscopic diligence of a Leuwenhoeck submits to the inspection of a
midnight that steak was cut and cooked; and lighted by two lanterns of sperm
miniatures of narwhales and porpoises, treats us to a series of classical
mistakes in depicting the whale are not so very surprising after all.
mittens.  For all these reasons, then, any way you may look at it, you must
modern, especially in Pliny, Purchas, Hackluyt, Harris, Cuvier, etc.  But I
moment, as slowly it subsided, and sank.  Then once more arose, and silently
monster like brooks down a hill.  His tormented body rolled not in brine but
monster perpendicularly flitted his tail forty feet into the air, and then
more pliable to the rope-maker, and also renders the rope itself more
more soft and elastic; and I will add (since there is an aesthetics in all
morning.  Though, in overseeing the pursuit of this whale, Captain Ahab had
mortal woman, for the first time, seat himself amid those hempen
most conscientious compilations of Natural History for the benefit of the
most instances, prudently practicable.  But this critical act is not always
most massive, it is by far the most buoyant part about him.  So that with ease
motionless arm of Daggoo.  Whether the flitting attendance of the one still and
mouth into which the billows are rolling, might be taken for the Traitors'
movements, to pitch the second iron into him.  Nevertheless, as the second
much ado blindly to struggle out from that phrensied twilight into the clear
much nearer than another, but none can hit it with any very considerable
muscles are strained and half started --what that is none know but those who
must be subjected; but as most seamen are beginning to learn, tar in general
mysterious creature, here spoken of, it is included among the class of
mystifications too tedious to detail.  Thus the whale-line folds the whole
naked, barbed end slopingly projects from the prow.  Thereby the weapon is
necessary on two accounts.  First: In order to facilitate the fastening to
neck, as you may say.  Perhaps a very little thought will now enable you to
needs conclude that the great Leviathan is that one creature in the world
net-work has been achieved; and it has cost steady years of steady
noiseless sails being set.  Presently, as we thus glided in chase, the
not an oar should be used, and no man must speak but in whispers.  So seated
not from out of toil.
not only incorrect, but the picture of the Mysticetus or Greenland whale
not very much of a concentrated one.  When the painted canvas cover is clapped
oars suspended, we were awaiting its reappearance, lo!  in the same spot where
oarsman, half shrouded by the incensed boiling spout of the whale, and in
object.  When you see him 'quid, said the savage, honing his harpoon in the
obliquely elevating his head, he thereby may be said to transform himself
ocean, that with Portuguese vengeance had whelmed a whole world without
of Stubb's hands, from which the hand-cloths, or squares of quilted canvas
of a burly-browed utilitarian old gentleman, with all Jeremy's other leading
of a common quill, prevents it from slipping out.  From the chocks it hangs
of affairs.  One small, helping cause of all this liveliness in Stubb, was
of affright; while in the black stormy distance the ship is bearing down upon
of broken sea-shell or a shark's tooth, that miraculous intricacy of wooden
of his general shape.  Though Jeremy Bentham's skeleton, which hangs for
of his one poor jack-knife, he will carve you a bit of bone sculpture, not
of it being so very unusual, that circumstance has gone far to invest it with
of men which the sailor headed.  They embarked; and so for ever got the start
of one; the same line being continuously coiled in both tubs.  There is
of proportionate depth, makes a rather bulky freight for a craft whose planks
of red wine, shot into the frighted air; and falling back again, ran dripping
of ships.  No mercy, no power but its own controls it.  Panting and snorting
of that Hogarthian monster undulates on the surface, scarcely drawing one
of the Peace.  In addition to those fine engravings from Garnery, there are
of the excited headsman; as at every dart, hauling in upon his crooked
of the latter, yet that small section of him is all wrong.  It looks more
of the line in any way attached to the boat, and were the whale then to run
of the ocean; and that the sperm whale, unlike other species, is supplied
of the seas have ever been regarded with emotions unspeakably unsocial and
of the small dark slabs of the noble South Sea war-wood, are frequently met
of the swimming crew are scattered about the whale in contrasting expressions
of the whale as he actually appears to the eye of the whaleman when in his own
of their former captain, had he been at all minded to work them legal
of them actually burst their blood-vessels in the boat; no wonder that some
of them, the twigs.  So, in productive subjects, grow the chapters.  The crotch
of these?  As for the book-binder's whale winding like a vine-stalk round the
of thousands of those who have gone upon the waters; though but a moment's
of whales defined along the undulating ridges.  But you must be a thorough
of whaling should have been there shadowed forth.  The Hindoo whale referred
official superior, quietly resigned to him for the time the sole management
often startled by the sharp slapping of their tails against the hull, within
oil, Stubb stoutly stood up to his spermaceti supper at the capstan-head,
old Dutch savage, Albert Durer.  Wooden whales, or whales cut in profile out
on a plain.  And still, at wide intervals in the silvery night, the lonely,
on the american line-tub, the boat looks as if it were pulling off with a
on the coast of Mexico, August,
on through both opposing elements at once.  A continual cascade played at the
one of the boats (presumed to contain the missing leg in all its original
one of the peculiar characteristics of the savage in his domestic hours, is
one should draw out, the other may still retain a hold.  It is a doubling of
only finished sketches at all capable of conveying the real spirit of the
only to be seen at sea in unfathomable waters; and afloat the vast bulk of
or cutting them, and making a prodigious sensation in all directions.  Nor,
or kink in the coiling would, in running out, infallibly take somebody's arm,
or layers of concentric spiralizations, without any hollow but the heart,
or minute vertical tube formed at the axis of the cheese.  As the least tangle
orders for securing it for the night, and then handing his lantern to a
other like skrimshander articles, as the whalemen call the numerous little
other respects, you can hardly regard any creatures of the deep with the same
out into view; surging from side to side; spasmodically dilating and
overruns the globe.  Consider the subtleness of the sea; how its most dreaded
own from his mouth, Stubb scattered the dead ashes over the water; and, for
packed in its maziness of design, as the Greek savage, Achilles's shield;
padded animal as the insect does to the chrysalis that so roundingly envelopes
paint to you as well as one can without canvas, something like the true form
paintings and engravings they have of their whaling scenes.  With not one
particular whale he pursued; however this was, or whether his eagerness
parts, with the same sort of life that lives in a dog or a horse.  Indeed, in
pass that matter by.  i know of only four published outlines of the great Sperm
passages, in scenes hereafter to be painted.
perceive the white mass, than with a quick intensity he instantly gave orders
personal characteristics; yet nothing of this kind could be inferred from
picture of the Sperm Whale.  Before showing that picture to any Nantucketer,
pilot-boat.
pipe.  As the line passed round and round the loggerhead; so also, just
plain, you will often discover images as of the petrified forms of the
plains recumbent elephants without knowing them to be such, taking them for
play.  And still puffing at his pipe, Stubb cheered on his crew to the
popular work Goldsmith's Animated Nature.  In the abridged London edition of
portentousness.  So rarely is it beheld, that though one and all of them
possible wrinkles and twists.  In the English boats two tubs are used instead
powerless ship, and the inert mass of a dead whale, a conquered fortress,
precisely, that food consists.  At times, when closely pursued, he will
present day confidently challenge the faith of the landsman.  It is time to
previous chapter Colnett and Cuvier have been referred to.  Huggins's is far
proceeds of the voyage), yet now and then you find some of these Nantucketers
procured for every crystal a sworn affidavit taken before a Greenland Justice
prodigious great wedding-cake to present to the whales.  Both ends of the line
prow like a snow-slide, new slid from the hills.  Thus glistening for a
published a Natural History of Whales, in which he gives what he calls a
publisher somewhere about the 15th century, during the Revival of Learning;
purely fabulous creature, imitated, I take it, from the like figures on
purporting to be sober, scientific delineations, by those who know.  In old
pushes off from the ship, with the headsman or whale-killer as temporary
pyramid.  Even Scoresby, the justly renowned Right whaleman, after giving us
quantity too much stiffen the whale-line for the close coiling to which it
quite a different affair: the ship hove-to upon the open sea, and in the
quite as workmanlike, but as close
quiver in him like a shaken jelly.  Yet habit --strange thing!  what cannot
ranging up for another fling.  The red tide now poured from all sides of the
reach.  No perceptible face or front did it have; no conceivable token of
readily into the boat, and do not strain it so much; whereas, the American
recognised at last, their immense magnitude renders it very hard really to
reflection into every face, so that they all glowed to each other like red
remain incognita, though once high-ruffed Mendanna trod them and old Figuera
reminded one of mowers.  Seen from the mast-heads, especially when they paused
repartees, you never heard over your mahogany, than you will hear over the
repelling; though we know the sea to be an everlasting terra incognita, so
reply, raising some old war-whoop to the skies; as every oarsman in the
represented lying among ice-isles, with white bears running over their living
require a laborious re-discovery; like the Solomon islands, which still
resting crosswise upon the loom or handle of every man's oar, so that it jogs
retribution.  Some ten days after the French ships sailed, the whale-boat
round a table where red meat is being carved, ready to bolt down every killed
rowing, but by repeated loud and intrepid exclamations; and what it is to
ruefully contemplating his own amputation.  Throughout the Pacific, and also
sailor friend runs risk of the archiepiscopacy.  Let us withdraw more out of
sailors say) holding a painted board before him, representing the tragic
sank out of sight like a tower swallowed up.  There go flukes!  was the cry,
savage as an Iroquois.  I myself am a savage; owning no allegiance but to the
scene in which he lost his leg.  There are three whales and three boats; and
scenes to be anywhere found, are two large French engravings, well executed,
schooner, he returned with them to his vessel; and finding all right there,
scientific predecessor in the same field, Desmarest, got one of his
screw.  Though amid all the smoking horror and diabolism of a sea-fight,
sea and the land; and do you not find a strange analogy to something in
sea, he swam back to his comrades.  Watching the boat till it was fairly
sea; the wooden poles of the spilled harpoons obliquely bob in it; the heads
seaman, went his way into the cabin, and did not come forward again until
secret seas have hitherto revealed to mankind.  A vast pulpy mass, furlongs in
see them (as before you heard them) wallowing in the sullen, black waters,
seem entirely content with presenting the mechanical outline of things, such
seems all but miraculous.  How, at such an apparently unassailable surface,
seen Moby Dick and fought him, than to have seen thee, thou white ghost!
seethingly advance their scythes through the long wet grass of marshy meads;
seizing the picturesqueness of things seems to be peculiarly evinced in what
seldom remarkable as faithful essays.  On the spires of some old-fashioned
self-adjusting buoyancy and simultaneousness of volition and action, can you
set the world right in this matter, by proving such pictures of the whale all
several harpoons to bend on to the line should the first one be ineffectually
several pictures of the different species of the Leviathan.  All these are
sharks will be seen longingly gazing up to the ship's decks, like hungry dogs
shivering world ninety-six fac-similes of magnified Arctic snow crystals.  I
should sound so deep as to threaten to carry off the entire line originally
silent, subtle, ever-present perils of life.  And if you be a philosopher,
silently serpentines about the oarsmen before being brought into actual play --
simultaneously dangling about him.  For, of course, each boat is supplied with
since those inventive but unscrupulous times when on the marble panellings of
sketches of whales and whaling-scenes, graven by the fishermen themselves on
skill, and however much, in a flattering future, that science and skill may
slanting sun playing upon this crimson pond in the sea, sent back its
sleepy, the anvil-headed whale would be best.  But these knocking whales are
slightly vapored with tar, not impregnated with it, as in the
smacking his lips over a mouthful of Grenadier's steak.  And thus with oars
smackingly feasted on its fatness.  The few sleepers below in their bunks were
solemn figure.  "Let me remove my hat.  Now, venerable priest, further into
solitary jet had gradually worked upon Ahab, so that he was now prepared to
some advantage in this; because these twin-tubs being so small they fit more
some enchanter's wand, the sleepy ship and every sleeper in it all at once
somehow and somewhere; else the most terrible jeopardy would involve all
something over two hundred fathoms.  Towards the stern of the boat it is
sometimes carries on his pestilent back.  And all the while the thick-lipped
sometimes involve a slight loss of speed in the chase; but long experience in
sometimes worn at these times, had accidentally dropped.  It was like holding
somewhat slackened his flight.  Haul in --haul in!  cried Stubb to the
soon made strangely manifest.  Stubb was a high liver; he was somewhat
sort of license prevailed, not only in most popular pictures of the whale,
sort our noble profession
soul of man there lies one insular Tahiti, full of peace and joy, but
sound it slowly disappeared again, Starbuck still gazing at the agitated
spear-paddle, in its full multiplicity and elaboration of carving, is as
species of whales find their food above water, and may be seen by man in the
speed.  Besides, such is the breadth of the upper part of the front of his
sperm whalemen are absent four years with four barrels; no wonder that to
spirally coiled away in the tub, not like the worm-pipe of a still though,
spoke.  start her, now; give 'em the long and strong stroke, tashtego.
spokes.  The sudden exclamations of the crew must have alarmed the whale; and
spout-hole.
staggering business truly in that rocking commotion.  From the vibrating line
started into wakefulness; and more than a score of voices from all parts of
starts to run, the boat-header and harpooneer likewise start to running fore
steersman, and the harpooneer or whale-fastener pulling the foremost oar,
stick of a peculiar form, some two feet in length, which is perpendicularly
stiletto-like cry that startled every man from his nod, the negro yelled out
stillness almost preternatural spread over the sea, however unattended with
stock of a descending anchor --as stamped and gilded on the backs and
stories of them which are to be found in certain books, both ancient and
strained boat involuntarily bounced forward with the one tremendous leading
stranded fish; and these are about as correct as a drawing of a wrecked ship,
strange creature as that?  Nor does Hogarth, in painting the same scene in
strike the first iron into the fish; for often, in what is called a long
striving to wrest it out of your clutch.  Wet the line!  wet the line!  cried
stroke which the eager Indian gave.
stubb to the tub oarsman (him seated by the tub) who, snatching off his hat,
stump-speech does the poor whaleman make; but, with downcast eyes, stands
successful, then at the second critical instant, that is, when the whale
such an audacious enterprise, eight or ten loose second irons may be
such observations of the hills, that your precise, previous stand-point would
sudden roll of the sea, the little craft stands half-erect out of the water,
suit," cried the company, with exceeding interest.  "Is there a copy of the
superficial western one; though, by vast odds, the most terrific of all mortal
supper cooking in the great bowels below.  Sea fowls are pecking at the small
swam through the brit, which, adhering to the fringing fibres of that wondrous
swarming-time the bees rush to the boughs.  Bare-headed in the sultry sun,
tall tapering masts mildly waved to that languid breeze, as three mild palms
temples, the pedestals of statues, and on shields, medallions, cups, and
tenth of England's experience in the fishery, and not the thousandth part of
tents really lie encamped beyond my mortal sight!
terrific wreck of the stoven planks.  The prow of the boat is partially
terror, skittishly curvetting about both boat and whale, entangling the lines,
that Columbus sailed over numberless unknown worlds to discover his one
that almost omnipotent tool of the sailor, they will turn you out anything
that destroyed him.  "Are you through?" said Don Sebastian, quietly.  "I am,
that escaped at the lip.  As morning mowers, who side by side slowly and
that has caused them.  To insure the greatest efficiency in the dart, the
that his precise expression the devil himself could not catch.  But it may be
that in disposition answers to the sagacious kindness of the dog?  The
that in the almost endless sculptures of that immemorial pagoda, all the
that makes the voyage, and if you take the breath out of his body how can
that name as the Banks of Newfoundland do, because of there being shallows
that of the Americans, they have nevertheless furnished both nations with the
that purpose.  Your hat, however, is the most convenient.
that stump to an incredulous world.  But the time of his justification has now
that the great Kraken of Bishop Pontoppodan may ultimately resolve itself into
that thinking after all he might not as yet be alarmed, Ahab gave orders that
that to the timid eye of the landsman, they seem as Indian jugglers, with
that you can derive anything like a truthful idea of the living whale as seen
that, in the old Dutch fishery, a mop was used to dash the running line with
the Evangelists," said Don Sebastian, gravely, returning with a tall and
the Pequod's crew could hardly resist the spell of sleep induced by such a
the Pole with the revolutions of the bright points that first defined him to
the Right Whale largely feeds.  For leagues and leagues it undulated round us,
the Spermaceti Whale Fisheries.  In this book is an outline purporting to be
the Squid was a thing of portents, to Queequeg it was quite a different
the White Whale!  Upon this, the seamen rushed to the yard-arms, as in
the act of leaping, as if from a precipice.  The action of the whole thing is
the bows, it continues its way to the gunwale still a little further aft,
the chances.  But it very often happens that owing to the instantaneous,
the deadliest snakes sportively festooning their limbs.  Nor can any son of
the extreme pointed prow of the boat, where a wooden pin or skewer the size
the eye of that whale a bow-window some five feet long.  Ah, my gallant
the fish's flank.  When reaching far over the bow, Stubb slowly churned his
the fish.  And now it is struck; for, starting
the index, middle, ring, and little finger.  But all these are permanently
the jungle overlays her own cubs, so the sea dashes even the mightiest whales
the largest sized Evangelists you can." "This is the priest, he brings you
the light, and hold the Holy Book before me that I may touch it."
the line out to the end almost in a single, smoking minute as he sometimes
the line; the object being this: to dart them both, if possible, one
the monster to which these arms belonged ordinarily clings by them to the bed
the moonlight.  I see no need for this." "Excuse me for running after you,
the most vague ideas concerning its true nature and form;  notwithstanding,
the night, which obscured the spars and rigging aloft, the two --ship and
the one known as the harpooneer-oar.  Now it needs a strong, nervous arm to
the other, without the slightest warning; and only by a certain
the other?  Preternatural terrors rested upon the Hebrews, when under the
the placing of the cap-sheaf to all this blundering business was reserved for
the profundities of the ocean, and bearing high in the air upon his back the
the scene.  Serious fault might be found with the anatomical details of this
the scientific Frederick Cuvier, brother to the famous Baron.  In
the shops of oil-dealers, what shall be said of them?  They are generally
the side fin, the bones of which almost exactly answer to the bones of the
the smoker's boat, and much nearer to it than to any of the others, Stubb
the speed of the whale as the before described exhaustion of the harpooneer
the upper end of the line is taken aft from the tub, and passing round the
the vessel, simultaneously with the three notes from aloft, shouted forth the
the western clearings.  But, though for ever mounted on that stump, never a
the whale of the bigness of a human head.  This particular feat of the shark
the whale really looks like.  And the only mode in which you can derive even a
the whale.  Pull up --pull up!  he now cried to the bowsman, as the waning
their hours of ocean leisure.  Some of them have little boxes of
their indolent crests; and across the wide trance of the sea, east nodded to
them have any but
then they change places; and the headsman, the chief officer of the little
therefore no longer of use.  Paddles were dropped, and oars came loudly into
these qualities in him, as well as to the thousand concurring accidents of
these ten years, they tell me, has that man held up that picture, and
these unprofessional attempts, let us glance at those pictures of leviathan
they are so elevated, and besides that are to all intents and purposes so
they believe it to furnish to the sperm whale his only food.  For though other
they contrive to gouge out such symmetrical mouthfuls, remains a part of the
thickness.  At first sight, you would not think it so strong as it really is.
things), is much more handsome and becoming to the boat, than hemp.  Hemp is
this ball; I trod the ship; I knew the crew; I have seen and talked with
this book will be incidentally shown.  It is also very curiously displayed in
this book-binder's fish an attempt at a whale; because it was so intended
this dangerous affair.  But why say more?  All men live enveloped in
this nineteenth century such a hippogriff could be palmed for genuine upon any
though seated in the whale-boat, you would not at heart feel one whit more of
though taking a broad general view of the thing, this may very well be; yet
though this sculpture is half man and half whale, so as only to give the tail
thoughts of Moby Dick, we now gazed at the most wondrous phenomenon which the
three lights up and down in the Pequod's main-rigging dimly guided our way;
three or four sailor tarts, that is whaleboats full of mariners: their
three whales in various attitudes, capping his second chapter.  His
thumbs and fingers, slowly toiled hour after hour upon that inert, sluggish
thunder-claps,  that's all, cried Stubb, spluttering out the smoke as he
thus cannibally carving each other's live meat with carving-knives all gilded
thus exhibited exceeding twenty and thirty feet in length.  They fancy that
till drawing nearer we saw Ahab dropping one of several more lanterns over the
title-pages of many books both old and new --that is a very picturesque but
to quicken the activity of the excited seamen.
to seem inelegant, but this unsightly whale looks much like an amputated sow;
to set an example of superhuman activity to the rest, not only by incredible
to such a sight again, you must be sure and take the exact intersecting
to the London docks, you may have seen a crippled beggar (or kedger, as the
to wave his orders to the helmsman, cast
to, occurs in a separate department of the wall, depicting the incarnation of
tolerable idea of his living contour, is by
topmost skies, to see whether the fabled heavens with all their countless
touching that species, declares not to have its counterpart in nature.  But
town-crier would ever find her again.  Before lowering the boat for the chase,
trades and pursuits, every conceivable avocation of man, were prefigured ages
traveller is continually girdled by amphitheatrical heights; here and there
tub, nearly three feet in diameter and
turn round on his centre half way, seize his harpoon from the crotch, and
turn to this green, gentle, and most docile earth; consider them both, the
two other French engravings worthy of note, by some one who subscribes
unattended with the saddest and most fatal casualties.  Furthermore: you must
unbroken, and is drawn just balancing upon the monster's spine; and standing
under one of their few aspects of oriental repose.  The other engraving is
undulating in the trough of the sea, and ever and anon tranquilly spouting
undulations.  And, not to speak of the highly presumable difference of
unearthly, formless, chance-like apparition of life.  As with a low sucking
unexhausted brain.  In the title-page of the original edition of the
universal cannibalism of the sea; all whose creatures prey upon each other,
universal problem of all things.  The mark they thus leave on the whale, may
unwonted bustle was he in that the staid Starbuck, his
upon their merit.  In bony, ribby regions of the earth, where at the base of
us lifelessly swung from the spars, and for every swing that we made there
use; three oarsmen are just setting the mast in its hole; while from a
used by whalemen in hunting the famous Gallipagos terrapin.
vacant sea.  For this part of the Indian Ocean through which we then were
van, still encouraged his men to the onset, all the while puffing the smoke
various whalemen of more than one nation has convinced me that in the vast
very curious touches at the whale, where all manner of spouts, jets d'eau,
very heart of the Leviathanic life, with a Right Whale alongside; the vessel
very impressions, man has lost that sense of the full awfulness of the sea
violent, convulsive running of the whale upon receiving the first iron, it
visible sphere a strange spectre was seen by Daggoo from the main-mast-head.
voyaging is not what whalemen call a lively ground; that is, it affords
warm afternoon.  But that pipe, poor whale, was thy last.  As if struck by
was a nod from below from the slumbering helmsman.  The waves, too, nodded
was exceedingly still and sultry, and with nothing special to engage them,
water; in many other ships, a wooden piggin, or bailer, is set apart for
waters where it had sunk, with a wild voice exclaimed -- Almost rather had I
waves whispered together as they softly ran on; in this profound hush of the
we commenced the slow business of towing the trophy to the Pequod.  And now,
we moved.  For, upon the great canal of Hang-Ho, or whatever they call it, in
we swiftly but silently paddled along; the calm not admitting of the
weapon must, at all events, be anticipatingly tossed out of the boat,
welcome cry was heard -- Stand up, Tashtego! --give it to him!  The harpoon was
went hot and hissing along every one of their wrists.  It was the magical
went out of my body; though my body still continued to sway as a pendulum
were popularly supposed to be a species of the Leviathan.  In the vignettes
were preparing to cast anchor in the deep; for heavy chains are being dragged
were providentially in want of precisely that number
west, and the sun over all.  Suddenly bubbles seemed bursting beneath my
whale hunt.  For the most part, the English and American whale draughtsmen
whale is going up like the smoke over a village of smithies; and to
whale might have swallowed, and which he was fearful of breaking ere he
whale relaxed in his wrath.  Pull up! --close to!  and the boat ranged along
whale with perpendicular flukes.  Then again, there is an imposing quarto,
whale's flesh that night.  Mingling their mumblings with his own mastications,
whale's majestic flukes.  But go to the old Galleries, and look now at a great
whale, but let that pass; since, for the life of me, I could not draw so
whale, seemed yoked together like colossal bullocks, whereof one reclines
whale-line.  The line originally used in the fishery was of the best hemp,
whale-lines.  All are born with halters round their necks; but it is only
whale-lines; for, though not so durable as hemp, it is stronger, and far
whale-ships ever beheld, and returned to their ports to tell of it.  But
whale.  No wonder, taking the whole fleet of whalemen in a body, that out of
whaleman, to see these sights; and not only that, but if you wish to return
whaler anchored, inshore, in a calm, and lazily taking water on board; the
whales, I am strongly tempted here to enter upon those still more monstrous
wheat.  On the second day, numbers of Right Whales were seen, who, secure
when caught in the swift, sudden turn of death, that mortals realize the
when the device was first introduced.  It was introduced by an old Italian
whence he derived that picture, who can tell?  Perhaps he got it as his
where the Right Whale is often chased.
which aboriginally belongs to it.  The first boat we read of, floated on an
which must remain unpainted to the last.  True, one portrait may hit the mark
which refuses to give up its dead; still in dreams sees the awful white whale
while the other remains standing.  If moody Ahab was now all quiescence, at
who have a genuine relish for that particular part of the Sperm Whale
will, long after the power which first moved it is withdrawn.  Ere
windward, a black cloud, rising up with earnest of squalls and rains, seems
with in the forecastles of American whalers.  Some of them are done with much
with its black hull close to the vessel's, and seen through the darkness of
with might and main clinging to his seat, to prevent being tossed to the
with my shoulders leaning against the slackened royal shrouds, to and
with teeth in order to attack and tear it.  There seems some ground to imagine
with the flag of capture lazily hanging from the whale-pole inserted into his
with what little strength may remain, he essays to pitch it somehow into the
withstand it; in that dreamy mood losing all consciousness, at last my soul
wonderfully good and true.  The half-emptied line-tub floats on the whitened
worse than the Persian host who murdered his own guests; sparing not the
written by one Captain Colnett, a Post Captain in the English navy, entitled
wrong.  It may be that the primal source of all those pictorial delusions will
yet to be slain; and though a thousand other whales were brought to his ship,
yet, even in the case of one of those young sucking whales hoisted to a ship's
you expect to find it there when most wanted!  Again, if the dart be
you had best provide for your summary retreat from Nantucket.  In a word,
you please, in the way of a mariner's fancy.  Long exile from Christendom and
you would have thought from the sound on the Pequod's decks, that all hands
young and tender, free from the same heinousness of mistake.  Look at that
yourself?  For as this appalling ocean surrounds the verdant land, so in the
yourselves; take plenty of time --but start her; start her like
