









































     All at once the out-stretched arm gave a peculiar motion and then remained
     Good a mast-head as any, sir.  Will you mount?  That I will, and thank ye
     I say three years, but I am pretty sure it was more than that.  Here are
     It was a cloudy, sultry afternoon;
     Queequeg, said I, come along, you shall be my lawyer, executor, and
     Sing out and say something, my hearties.  Roar and pull, my thunderbolts!
     Smuggled on board, somehow, before the ship sailed. (Strong, strong, boys! )
     So far as what there may be of a
     So ignorant are most landsmen of some of the plainest and most palpable
     That protection could only consist in his own predominating brain and heart
     That's it --that's it.  Now ye do something; that looks like it, my
     The phantoms, for so they then
     There are certain queer times and occasions
     Though, consumed with the hot fire of his
     Time!  time!  Dough-Boy hurried below, glanced at the watch, and reported
     Was it not so, O Don Miguel!  thou Chilian whale, marked like an old
     Where-away?  On the lee-beam, about two miles off!  a school of them!
     Who would have thought
     Yes, that's the law.  I should like to see a boat's crew backing water up to a
     and accursed fiends beckoned him to leap down among them; when this hell in
     and considering that Starbuck, notwithstanding, was famous for his great
     and partially beneath a thin layer of water, also, the whales were swimming.
     be in a hurry.  Why don't you snap your oars, you rascals?  Bite something,
     circumstance in point, peculiarly interesting to the writer hereof.
     far off upon the sea; and finally fell to rearing and plunging in the boat's
     for a vast practical joke, though the wit thereof he but dimly discerns,
     for granted the ship had struck against a rock; but when the amazement was a
     give way, all four boats.  Thou, Flask, pull out more to leeward!  Aye,
     he had rather a peculiar way of talking to them in general, and especially
     in a whisper to his crew, then speaking out loud again: A sad business,
     miasmas, with all the other common perils incident to wandering in the heart
     rocks, with all the other ordinary subjects of fearful contemplation, 
     she would infallibly encounter him there.  So, too, with some other feeding
     some of the ship's company; but Archy's fancied discovery having some time
     stand no nonsense.  I will now refer you to Langsdorff's Voyages for a little
     the circular.  This chart divides the ocean into districts of five degrees
     the ship Essex, Captain Pollard, of
     the water covering every rib and plank, so that to our downward gazing eyes
     totally
     were the Loom of Time, and I myself were a shuttle mechanically weaving and
     whose eyes had been setting to windward like two fixed stars, suddenly
     you will clearly perceive that, according to all human reasoning,
(Pull, my boys!) Sperm, sperm's the play!  This at least is duty; duty and
-- He's got fits, that
--aye, chance, free will, and necessity --no wise incompatible --all
--he speaks of the mysterious and mortal attack of the animal.
--merry's the word.  Pull, babes --pull, sucklings -- pull, all.  But what the
.  By that circular, it appears that precisely
.. < chapter L 27  AHAB'S BOAT AND CREW.  FEDALLAH >
.. < chapter xlix 15  THE HYENA >
.. < chapter xlv 24  THE AFFIDAVIT >
.. < chapter xlvi 22  SURMISES >
.. < chapter xlvii 14  THE MAT-MAKER >
.. < chapter xlviii 2  THE FIRST LOWERING >
.. <p 196n. >
.. <p 198 >
.. <p 199 >
.. <p 200 >
.. <p 200 >
.. <p 201 >
.. <p 202 >
.. <p 203 >
.. <p 204 >
.. <p 204n. >
.. <p 205 >
.. <p 205n. >
.. <p 206 >
.. <p 207 >
.. <p 208 >
.. <p 209 >
.. <p 209 >
.. <p 210 >
.. <p 211 >
.. <p 212 >
.. <p 212 >
.. <p 213 >
.. <p 214 >
.. <p 215 >
.. <p 216 >
.. <p 217 >
.. <p 218 >
.. <p 219 >
.. <p 220 >
.. <p 221 >
.. <p 222 >
.. <p 223 >
.. <p 224 >
.. <p 225 >
.. <p 225 >
.. <p 226 >
.. <p 227 >
.. <p 227 >
.. <p 228 >
Ahab said to that tiger-yellow crew of his --these were words best omitted
Ahab that had gone to his hammock, was not the agent that so caused
Ahab, the scheming, unappeasedly steadfast hunter of the white whale; this
Among whale-wise people it has often been argued whether, considering the
Archy.  Oh, I don't mind 'em, sir, said Archy; I knew it all before now.
Beach me, beach me on their black backs, boys; only do that for me, and I'll
Besides he all the time looked so easy and indolent himself, so loungingly
Besides, all the days I should now live would be as good as the days that
But as the mind does not exist unless leagued with the soul, therefore it
But it bade far to outstrip them; it flew on and on, as a mass of
But with Ahab the question assumed a modified aspect.  Considering that with
Chinese jacket of black cotton funereally invested him, with wide black
Commodore Davis of the British navy found the skeleton of a sperm whale.  Now,
Commodore's craft
Commodore's interview with that whale as providential.  Was not Saul of Tarsus
Constantinople?  Yes.  For the peculiar snow-white brow of Moby Dick, and his
D'Wolf applied immediately to the pumps to examine whether or not the vessel
Didn't I hear 'em in the hold?  And didn't I tell Cabaco here of it?  What say
Dorchester near Boston.  I have the honor of being a nephew of his.  I have
Emperor, must in all probability have been a sperm whale.
Fishery,
Flask has.  Fits?  yes, give him fits --that's the very word -- pitch fits
Flask mounted upon gigantic Daggoo was yet more curious; for sustaining
Flask.  If his leg were off at the hip, now, it would be a different thing.
He would say the most terrific things to his crew, in a tone so strangely
However, nothing dispirits, and nothing seems worth while disputing.  He bolts
I take it --the conclusion aimed at will naturally follow of itself.  First: I
I think I have heard you say that of all whalemen you ever met, our chief
I, when they had dragged me, the last man, to the deck, and I was still
Instantly all was commotion.  The Sperm Whale blows as a clock ticks, with the
Islands.  Conversation turning upon whales, the Commodore was pleased to be
Justinian was Emperor and Belisarius general.  As many know, he wrote the
Krusenstern's famous Discovery Expedition in the beginning of the present
Langsdorff, you must know by the way, was attached to the Russian Admiral
Lazarus lived after his resurrection; a supplementary clean gain of so many
Marmora, after having destroyed vessels at intervals in those waters for a
Mediterranean and the deep waters connecting with it.  Even now I am certain
Mediterranean.  I am told, on good authority, that on the Barbary coast, a
Miguel, after at various times creating great havoc among the boats of
Moby Dick.  For however eagerly and impetuously the savage crew had hailed the
Mr. Stubb! (seethe her, seethe her, my lads!) but never mind, Mr. Stubb,
Nantucket, was cruising in the Pacific Ocean.  One day she saw spouts,
Nantucket.  I have seen Owen Chace, who was chief mate of the Essex at the
No: because the mails are very irregular between here and New Guinea.  In
Nor-Westers, Harmattans, Trades; any wind but the Levanter and Simoom, might
Passion and Vanity stamping the living magnanimous earth, but the earth did
Pequod bearing down upon her boats with outstretched sails, like a wild hen
Pollard once more sailed for the Pacific in command of another ship, but the
Procopius mentions that, during the term of his prefecture at Constantinople,
Procopius's sea-monster, that for half a century stove the ships of a Roman
Procopius, a Christian magistrate of Constantinople, in the days when
Propontis.  In the Propontis, as far as I can learn, none of that peculiar
Queequeg, while busy at the mat.  As I kept passing and repassing the
Season-on-the-Line.  No possible endeavor then could enable her commander to
Secondly: People ashore have indeed some indefinite idea that a whale is an
Secondly: The ship Union, also of Nantucket, was in the year
Seen in advance of all the other indications, the puffs of vapor they spouted,
Siberian coast, and purchased by my uncle after bartering away the vessel in
Since the above was written, the statement is happily borne out by an official
So Tamerlane's soldiers often argued with tears in their eyes, whether that
Soon after, two cries in quick succession on each side of us denoted that the
Swimming round it we picked up the floating oars, and lashing them across the
Sylla to the classic scholar.  But this is not all.  New Zealand Tom and Don
Tattoo Land?  Was it not so, O Morquan!  King of Japan, whose lofty jet
That would disable him; but he has one knee, and good part of the other left,
The air around suddenly vibrated and tingled, as it were, like the air over
The following are extracts from Chace's narrative: Every fact seemed to
The ship, however, was by no means a large one: a Russian craft built on the
There's hogsheads of sperm ahead, Mr. Stubb, and that's what ye came for.
Three cheers, men --all hearts alive!  Easy, easy; don't be in a hurry --don't
Upon this, Daggoo, with either hand upon the gunwale to steady his way,
Volcano Bay on the Japanese Coast; yet it did not follow, that were the
Was it not so, O Timor Tom!  thou famed leviathan, scarred like an iceberg,
Washington, April 16th,
Whale when, sounding with his head in one direction, he nevertheless, while
White Whale was seen.  During that long interval Starbuck would ever be apt to
White Whale, more especially the catastrophe.  For this is one of those
With a start all glared at dark Ahab, who was surrounded by five dusky
Woods, Captain Butler of old had it in his mind to capture that notorious
a black night in an open boat, when almost despairing of reaching any
a certain generous knight-errantism in them, still, while for the love of it
a fourth keel, coming from the windward side, pulled round under the stern,
a great sea-monster was captured in the neighboring Propontis, or Sea of
a huge, vague form.  Affrighted, we all sprang into the sea as the ship at
a ledge; the sail collapsed and exploded; a
a meeting.  There was a circumstance which at first sight seemed to entangle
a running sperm whale have, in a calm, been transferred to the ship, and
a skewer through their necks; usage pronouncing that they must have no organs
a weariness and faintness of pondering came over him; and in the open air of
a whaling captain to jeopardize that life in the active perils of the chase.
about to throw themselves on board an enemy's ship.  But at this critical
account, said
accounting for their appearance, they were for the time freed from
acted like a charm upon the crew.  Then again, Stubb was one of those odd sort
advance of our bows.  For that singular craft at times evinced by the Sperm
adventure, so full, too, of honest wonders --the voyage of Lionel Wafer, one
affair.  I care not to perform this part of my task methodically; but shall
affecting the matter presently to be mentioned.  Now, in this history of his,
after her screaming brood; --all this was thrilling.  Not the raw recruit,
ain't the White Whale to-day!  Give way!  Now the advent of these outlandish
air; but from few of those lungs could that accustomed old cry have derived
all attempts to bale out the boat.  The oars were useless as propellers,
all but her trucks.  But little King-Post was small and short, and at the
all for the best.  Let all your crew pull strong, come what will. (Spring, my
all his hopes upon the one crowning fact above mentioned, however flattering
all inferiors on their guard in the matter of obeying them.  In obedience to a
allusions of his were at times so vivid and life-like, that they would cause
along; the boat going with such madness through the water, that the lee oars
altogether to abandon the collateral prosecution of the voyage.  Or at least
an unseen whale vertically bumping the hull from beneath.  I might proceed
analytic to be verbally developed here, Ahab plainly saw that he must still
and cross-running seas.  Still more strange to see him giddily perched upon
and deaths by casualties in the fishery, ever finds a public record at home,
and distinctions of a name; had as much a name indeed as Cambyses or Caesar.
and fashions both warp and woof; this easy, indifferent sword must be chance
and hand, backed by a heedful, closely calculating
and last, and the last time distinctly recognized a peculiar sort of huge
and more than suspects that the joke is at nobody's expense but his own.
and passion in the end, it is above all things requisite that temporary
and round upon his head.  Less swart in aspect, the companions of this figure
and shall he escape?  His broad fins are bored, and scalloped out like a lost
and showed the five strangers rowing Ahab, who, standing erect in the stern,
and strong.  Give way there, give way!  The devil fetch ye, ye ragamuffin
and subdued and yet somehow preluding was all the scene, and such an
and such as indicated resentment and fury.  He came directly from the shoal
and that's what he went into the after hold for, so often, as Dough-Boy long
and the horrid aspect and revenge of the whale, wholly engrossed my
and time himself on his way, as even then not to be wholly without prospect of
and worryings, prospects of sudden disaster, peril of life and limb; all
announcement of his quest; yet all sailors of all sorts are more or less
appear in the newspaper obituary you will read to-morrow at your breakfast?
arm, like a fencer's, thrown half backward into the air, as if to
as a vessel of war readily passes through the Dardanelles, hence a sperm
as that, Flask seemed perched at the mast-head of some ship which had sunk to
as the standard-bearer of this forlorn hope.  There, then, he sat, holding up
at a sound so strange, long drawn, and musically wild and unearthly, that the
at distant times and places popularly cognisable.  Why such a whale became
at the other end of the boat Ahab, with one
attention to every minute atmospheric influence which it was possible for his
authorities, he has always been considered a most trustworthy and
aye, sir, cheerily cried little King-Post, sweeping round his great steering
back-foremost into death's jaws?  Can't you twist that smaller?  said Flask.
ball of free will dropped from my hand, and I stood gazing up at the clouds
be content to produce the desired impression by separate citations of items,
be content with only one more and a concluding illustration; a remarkable and
be identically the same with those that were found there the preceding
be stripped of that strange imaginative impiousness which naturally invested
be the hated one he hunted.  But if such an hypothesis be indeed
been isolated instances of the presence of the sperm whale in the
been visible at that moment; nothing but a troubled bit of greenish white
before the squall comes.  There's white water again! --close to!  Spring!
betrayed no such far-gazing solicitudes.  The whales might have made one of
between them, both of which, according to their direction,  were
blood was spilled for it.
blow Moby Dick into
blowing off to leeward, like the confused scud from white rolling billows.
blows!  there!  there!  there!  she blows!  she blows!
blue, thus giving no distantly discernible token of the movement, though
board.  Ere the squall came close to, the other boats had cut loose from
boat, as it would tip for an instant on the knife-like edge of the sharper
boat, unless maybe to stop the plug-hole with my timber toe.  Oh!  he's a
boat; it was the darted iron of Queequeg.  Then all in one welded commotion
boats below.  Hardly had they pulled out from under the ship's lee, when
boats were now in keen pursuit of that one spot of troubled water and air.
brisk gale from the northwest sprang up.  An uncommon large whale, the body
broken by the intermitting dull sound of the sword, that it seemed as if this
brooding soul into this unfaltering hunt, he would not permit himself to rest
but ears, and no limbs but arms, in these critical moments.  It was a sight
but so intolerably cold that we were obliged to keep on our fur clothing.  For
but to pursue the ship itself, and long withstand all the lances hurled at
but was still cruising, if haply it might light upon some token of our
by Ahab, with a view to this very complexion of things.  Because, an interval
by no means the largest of that sort, have been found at its surface.  If,
calculated to do us the most injury, by being made ahead, and thereby
calculating mischief, on the part of the whale (many of which impressions I
came an invisible push from astern, while forward the boat seemed striking on
can't see three seas off; tip us up an oar there, and let me on to that.
cannot easily be gainsaid.  Nor is there any reason it should be.  Of what
cannot now recall), induce me to be satisfied that I am correct in my
capricious and unreliable --they live in the varying outer weather, and they
capsizings in the water and consequent bivouacks on the deep, were matters
captain's quest, and could he, would joyfully disintegrate himself from it,
capture of Moby Dick; though he seemed ready to sacrifice all mortal
case, these spiritual throes in him heaved his being up from its base, and a
cashier Ahab.  Nor was there wanting still another precautionary motive more
catastrophe.
cautious comprehensiveness and unloitering vigilance with which Ahab threw his
celerity, were casting loose the tackles and bands of the boat which swung
century.  Captain Langsdorff thus begins his seventeenth chapter.  By the
character, that upon being attacked he will frequently open his mouth, and
chasm seemed opening in him, from which forked flames and lightnings shot up,
children, boys.  Lay me on --lay me on!  O Lord, Lord!  but I shall go stark,
circular, issued by Lieutenant Maury, of the National Observatory,
clearly cut against the alternating depressions of the watery horizon; while
combining the speed of the two objects for the shock; to effect which, the
come to help us --never mind from where --the more the merrier.  Pull, then, do
command, now soft with entreaty.  How different the loud little King-Post.
commanding the ship in question, is a New Englander, who, after a long life
commodore set sail in this impregnable craft for Valparaiso.  But he was
common vitality to which it was conjoined, fled horror-stricken from the
companions, as if fired with revenge for their sufferings.  Again: At all
company were gazing upon these strangers, Ahab cried out to the
competent, could refuse all further obedience to him, and even violently
complete spiritual man any more than mere corporeal superiority involves
completed fabric; this savage's sword, thought I, which thus finally shapes
compounded of fun and fury, and the fury seemed so calculated merely as a
concealed beneath the surface, mills round, and swiftly swims off in the
concentrated whisper to his men; while the sharp fixed glance from his eyes
concluding blow producing a corresponding contrast in the final aspect of the
confidential business with him.  that business consisted in fetching the
consecutive years, Moby Dick had been periodically descried, lingering in
considering his monomania, to hint that his vindictiveness towards
constitution of
content to recognise him by merely touching their tarpaulins when he would be
contrary of this has proved true.  In general, the same remark, only within a
conversed with his son; and all this within a few miles of the scene of the
converted from unbelief by a similar fright?  I tell you, the sperm whale will
coolly and adroitly balancing himself to the jerking tossings of his chip of a
corroborative example, if such be needed.  Lionel, it seems, was on his way
could scarcely be worked rapidly enough to escape being torn from the
counterbalance any tendency to trip: Ahab was seen steadily managing his
counting-room they suppose to be elsewhere.  While yet the wondering ship's
craft, and silently eyeing the vast blue eye of the sea.  Not very far
creeping on board the Pequod during the dim Nantucket dawn, as well as the
crew reached the land in their boats.  Being returned home at last, Captain
crew sat motionless on the sea.  Instantly the three spread boats in the rear
crew to be subjected to.  For all these reasons then, and others perhaps too
cries.  To be sure the same sound was that very moment perhaps being heard all
crying out in a quick phrensy of hurry, Down, down all, and give way! --there
cuttle-fish --lurks at the bottom of that sea, because large creatures, but
daily appetites.  For even the high lifted and chivalric Crusaders of old
darkness of that early hour of the morning, the shock was after all caused by
darted straight ahead of the bow, almost seemed as two visible needles in two
dashed against it by the seas, and were at last taken up and safely landed on
days that have been spent in each month in every district, and the two
deck, this had not unreasonably awakened a sort of superstitious amazement in
deck.  Lower away there, I say.  Such was the thunder of his voice, that
declared to be incessantly tantalizing his boat's bow with its tail --these
descried.  Likewise upon the extreme stern of the boat where it was also
desire.  He sleeps with clenched hands; and wakes with his own bloody nails
despairing of ship or boat, we lifted up our eyes as the dawn came on.  The
destiny into these unalterable threads.  Meantime, Queequeg's impulsive,
devil are you hurrying about?  Softly, softly, and steadily, my men.  Only
devil fetch the hindmost.
did his crew say anything to him.  Only the silence of the boat was at
different
digestion gobbles down bullets and gun flints.  And as for small difficulties
dip into the watery glens and hollows; the keen spurrings and goadings to
discovered lounging by them on the sea, without seeking to cultivate a more
disheartening instances where truth requires full as much bolstering as error.
displayed his naked chest with the whole part of his body above the gunwale,
distant Flask's boat was also lying breathlessly still; its commander
do not know where I can find a better place than just here, to make mention of
done it.  First: In the year
down all events, all creeds, and beliefs, and persuasions, all hard things
down heading to leeward, we confidently looked to see them again directly in
dreaminess did there then reign all over the ship and all over the sea, only
dropped like light from his erect attitude to his seat,
dry on his shoulders.  And here was Flask now standing, Daggoo with one
ear.  We all heard a faint creaking, as of ropes and yards hitherto muffled by
earthquake beneath us.  The whole crew were half suffocated as they were
eighteen or twenty years ago Commodore J--- then commanding an American
enigmatical hintings of the unaccountable Elijah.  Meantime, Ahab, out of
enormous creature of enormous power; but I have ever found that when
escaped entirely uninjured.  now, the captain d'wolf here alluded to as
escaping from the boats, issued from the shoal, and bore directly down upon
establishing in all respects the reasonableness of the whole story of the
evanescent.  The permanent constitutional condition of the manufactured man,
events, the whole circumstances taken together, all happening before my own
exact manoeuvres which he made were necessary.  His aspect was most horrible,
example, on what is called the Seychelle ground in the Indian ocean, or
exceptionable, there were still additional considerations which, though not
expectantly poised on the gunwale.  So look the long line of man-of-war's men
express object as much in view, as in setting out through the Narragansett
eyes out!  Here!  whipping out the sharp knife from his girdle; every
eyes, and producing, at the time, impressions in my mind of decided,
facing the life and death peril so close to them ahead, yet with their eyes
fact, did you ever hear what might be called regular news direct or indirect
fall into open relapses of rebellion against his captain's leadership, unless
family vault.  now then, thought i, unconsciously rolling up the sleeves of
fears of being swallowed up by some dreadful tempest, or dashed upon hidden
featuring blow at events.  Thus we were weaving and weaving away when I started
feeding-grounds, could Ahab hope to encounter his prey; but in crossing the
feeds upon that heart for ever; that vulture the very creature he creates.
filling or woof of marline between the long yarns of the warp, using my own
finds himself pulling into the charmed, churned circle of the hunted sperm
fishery there hung a terrible prestige of perilousness about such a whale as
fixed, vivid conception of those perils, and the frequency with which they
fixed, while the boat's five oars were seen simultaneously peaked.  Boat and
flinging of the two harpoons; and I think it may have been something more
fond of that diversion.  This was the fourth time in my nautical life that I
for a pedestal.
for any object remote and blank in the pursuit, however promissory of life
for death.  And, indeed, the shock was so sudden and violent, that we took it
for one instant it tossed and gaped beneath the ship's bows like a chip at
for shipkeepers -- that is, those not appointed to the boats, by this time
for the final dash.  Nor was Ahab unmindful of another thing.  In times of
foregoing chapter, in its earliest part, is as important a one as will be
found in this volume; but the leading matter of it requires to be still
four whales as well known to the students of Cetacean History as Marius or
friend, does this sort of thing often happen?  Without much emotion, though
from New Guinea?  Yet I tell you that upon one particular voyage which I made
from Tashtego; and the whales disappeared.  Quick, steward!  cried Ahab.
from a bed that was on fire.  Yet these, perhaps, instead of being the
from his closer vicinity Ahab had observed it.  Every man look out along his
from his head, and stamped up and down on it; then picking it up, flirted it
from the body.  In the instance where three years intervened between the
full of quick wonder and awe!  The vast swells of the omnipotent sea; the
further and more familiarly enlarged upon, in order to be adequately
gain the top of the opposite hill; the headlong, sled-like slide down its
gaining ground, Ahab must of course have been most anxious to protect himself.
gaining other pious perquisites by the way.  Had they been strictly held to
gentlemen present.  He peremptorily denied for example, that any whale could
get out of order.  He knew, for example, that however magnetic his ascendency
gigantic bowls in a boundless bowling-green; the brief suspended agony of the
ginger-cakes don't ye pull? --pull and break something!  pull, and start your
give it to him!  whispered Starbuck.  A short rushing sound leaped out of the
glistening white plaited turban, the living hair braided and coiled round
go by, and no perspective promise of it to them, and then this same
gods shipwrecked him again upon unknown rocks and breakers; for the second
good ground to impeach.  secondly: It is well known in the Sperm Whale
granting all this; yet, regarded discreetly and coolly, seems it not but a
great mischief along the spanish land.  but i should not much wonder if, in the
grounds, where he had at times revealed himself.  But all these seemed only
gunwale, tumbled back to our places.  There we sat up to our knees in the sea,
gush of scalding vapor shot up near by; something rolled and tumbled like an
had done the same thing.  After the ceremony was concluded upon the present
had received any damage from the shock, but we found that very happily it had
hailed the mate.  Mr. Starbuck!  larboard boat there, ahoy!  a word with ye,
hand for the shuttle, and as Queequeg, standing sideways, ever and anon slid
hardly tell where they were or what to think; but every one began to prepare
harpoon in hand, sprang to his feet.  Though not one of the oarsmen was then
harpoon, has effected a complete escape; and, after an interval (in one
has been known, not only to chase the assailing boats back to their ships,
hatband, where he always wore it aslant like a feather.  He loaded it, and
have every reason to believe that the food of the sperm whale --squid or
have personally known three instances where a whale, after receiving a
have significantly complimented me upon my facetiousness; when, I declare
he sat, the sign and symbol of a man without faith, hopelessly holding up hope
head on a gun, was thrown out of his cabin!  Lionel then goes on to impute
head; and, as for his strength, let me say, that there have been examples
hearing of his officers, having sided the furthest to windward, was still
hearts of this my savage crew, and playing round their savageness even breeds
hearts-alive; pull, my children; pull, my little ones, drawingly and
heave did he thereby give to the negro's lordly chest.  So have I seen
heedfulness in the fishery; considering that I belonged to this uncommonly
height of a whaleman's discretion?  Certain.  I've lowered for whales from a
hence not only at substantiated times, upon well known separate
here, thought I, with my own hand I ply my own shuttle and weave my own
here; for you live under the blessed light of the evangelical land.  Only the
him from its decks.  The English ship Pusie Hall can tell a story on that
him to burst from it in horror again.  The latter was the eternal, living
him.  Not only that, but the subtle insanity of Ahab respecting Moby Dick was
himself by.  At any time it is a strange sight to the tyro to see with what
himself should toss, with one dexterous fling landed the little man high and
himself with a cool, indifferent, easy, unthought of, barbaric majesty, the
himself yawned beneath him, a wild cry would be heard through the ship; and
his broad back, flaxen-haired flask seemed a snow-flake.  The bearer looked
his casual stopping-places and ocean-inns, so to speak, not his places of
his congregation.  Not at all; and therein consisted his chief peculiarity.
his delirious but still methodical scheme.  But not so in the reality,
his heavy oaken sword between the threads, and idly looking off upon the
his life-spot became insufferable anguish; and when, as was sometimes the
his object have hitherto been spoken of, allusion has only been made to
his prey.  Meanwhile, all the boats tore on.  The repeated specific allusions
his pursuers; nor is it without conveying some eloquent indication of his
historical and otherwise, of the fishery, they might scout at Moby Dick as a
history of his own times, a work every way of uncommon value.  By the best
horizon, you would have thought him some prophet or seer beholding the
horizontal burst boiler out of a Mississippi steamer.  As for Fedallah, who was
horse walks off with a cart.  Again, it is very often observed that, if the
hospitable shore.  The dark ocean and swelling waters were nothing; the
however ignorant the world ashore may be of it, that there have been several
however transient and immediately forgotten that record.  Do you suppose that
hunted such and such a latitude or longitude this year, say, will turn out to
hunter, even as a white-bearded Mufti in the thronged thoroughfares of
hunters I have now and then heard casual allusions to it.  Thirdly: Some
if encountered, should be thought capable of individual recognition from his
if this were otherwise, there were not wanting other motives much more
ignorance of the entire subject may
implicated, touching the White Whale: taking all things together, I say, I
impossible to prevent its striking against him.  We were thus placed in the
impunity, both moral and legal, his crew if so disposed, and to that end
imputed to Starbuck's driving on to his whale almost in the teeth of a squall,
in a good degree continue true to the natural, nominal purpose of the Pequod's
in any other waters haunted by his race.  So that Monsoons, Pampas,
in his oil-jacket, was now calmly smoking his pipe in the rain; Mr. Stubb,
in his palms.  often, when forced from his hammock by exhausting and
in inculcating the religion of rowing.  But you must not suppose from this
in itself.  God help thee, old man, thy thoughts have created a creature in
in less than ten minutes she settled down and fell over.  Not a surviving
in some respects was over Starbuck, yet that ascendency did not cover the
in the midst of despair.  Wet, drenched through, and shivering cold,
in these jaws of death!  In vain we hailed the other boats; as well roar to
in this strange mixed affair we call life when a man takes this whole universe
incantation of revery lurked in the air, that each silent sailor seemed
inch as he spoke; still earnestly but whisperingly urging his crew; his face
independent being of its own.  Nay, could grimly live and burn, while the
indifferent sword, sometimes hitting the woof slantingly, or crookedly, or
induce in some minds, as to the natural verity of the main points of this
infidel sharks in the audacious seas may give ear to such words, when, with
influential with him.  It would be refining too much, perhaps, even
inhale its fickleness --and when retained
instance of three years), has been again struck by the same hand, and slain;
instant a sudden exclamation was heard that took every eye from the whale.
intellectual mastership; for to the purely spiritual, the intellectual but
intensely eager eyes gazed off towards the spot where the chase had last been
intensely heated plates of iron.  Beneath this atmospheric waving and curling,
interblending bubbles borne down a rapid stream from the hills.  Pull, pull,
interblending of other threads with its own.  This warp seemed necessity; and
interesting and curious particulars in the habits of sperm whales, the
interests and employment should intervene and hold them healthily suspended
interests to that one passion; nevertheless it may have been that he was by
intervals startlingly pierced by one of his peculiar whispers, now harsh with
interweavingly working together.  The straight warp of necessity, not to be
intimate acquaintance.  Like some poor devils ashore that happen to know an
into 'em.  Merrily, merrily, hearts-alive.  Pudding for supper, you know;
into the hands of him who steered the boat --oftentimes a fellow who at that
into the lead-colored waters.  Queequeg and I were mildly employed weaving
intolerable allegory.  First: Though most men have some vague flitting ideas
intolerably vivid dreams of the night, which, resuming his own intense
invaluable life of his ought to be carried into the thickest of the fight.
investigations have recently proved to me, that in modern times there have
irascible great man, they make distant unobtrusive salutations to him in the
is presumed to expand or contract); but never exceeds the visual sweep from
it might be to those hopes; nor in the sleeplessness of his vow could he so
it, Flask!  cried Stubb; if I had but one leg you would not catch me in a
it.  Well, well, so be it!  Can't be helped!  All right!  Give way, men!  It
it; that the full terror of the voyage must be kept withdrawn into the
its flanks all the coasts of Africa; but to no purpose.  This man and this
its travels; no doubt it had thrice circumnavigated the globe, brushing with
joke.  There is nothing like the perils of whaling to breed this free and easy
just quoted from Langsdorff, that I cannot forbear inserting it here for a
killed by valiant whaling captains, who heaved up their anchors with that
knowing, and judiciously malicious, as with direct aforethought to stave in,
laid himself open to the unanswerable charge of usurpation; and with perfect
lamp in the lantern; then stretching it on a waif pole, handed it to Queequeg
lamps and candles!  not a gallon you burn, but at least one drop of man's
last loomed into view, bearing right down upon us within a distance of not
leaking ship in a gale off Cape Horn.  Mr. Flask, said I, turning to
leeward.  Our sail was now set, and, with the still rising wind, we rushed
legatee.  It may seem strange that of all men sailors should be tinkering at
less wide limit, applies to the solitaries and hermits among the matured, aged
lifted arm furnishing him with a breast-band to lean against and steady
light, to be sure, but without an object to color, and therefore a blankness
lightning-like hurtling whisper Starbuck said: Stand up!  and Queequeg,
like a quiet ghost with a clean conscience sitting inside the bars of a snug
little Flask would now and then stamp with impatience; but not one added
little King-Post, who was standing close by; you are experienced in these
little over, we cast the lead, and sounded, but found no ground.  The
long after midnight he would throw himself back in reveries --tallied him,
long time I fancied that the sperm whale had been always unknown in the
lost off the Azores by a similar onset, but the authentic particulars of
loudly hailed Starbuck, Stubb, and Flask, to spread themselves widely, so as
lowered her boats, and gave chase to a shoal of sperm whales.  Ere long,
mad Gay-Header, Tashtego.  His body was reaching eagerly forward, his hand
mad idea, this; that in the broad boundless ocean, one solitary whale, even
make the great passage southwards, double Cape Horn, and then running down
managed his steering-oar, and so broadly gaped --open-mouthed at times --that
manner of wild conjectures as to dark Ahab's precise agency in the matter from
marching from the bosom of his wife into the fever heat of his first battle;
marling-spikes!  Stubb's exordium to his crew is given here at large, because
match across the rough sand-paper of his hand, when Tashtego, his harpooneer,
mate, Mr. Starbuck, is by far the most careful and prudent.  I suppose then,
mechanically retained between his teeth, at a short distance, followed after
meditation unrelieved by action); that when they stood their long night
memorable historical instances where a particular whale in the ocean has been
men, spring!)
mind that!  here then, from three impartial witnesses, i had a deliberate
miscellaneous hunt; if by chance the White Whale, spending his vacation in
mist still spread over the sea, the empty lantern lay crushed in the bottom
mizzen had come down; the line tubs were fixed in their places; the cranes
mole under the whale's eye, which I had observed there three years previous.
monomaniac old man had found the awful motive to his vengeance.  But in the
monstrous fable, or still worse and more detestable, a hideous and
months or weeks as the case might be.  I survived myself; my death and burial
more spacious than the palm of a man's hand, and standing upon such a base
more visible, owing to the increasing darkness of the dun cloud-shadows flung
most imminent danger, as this gigantic creature, setting up its back,
most of the deadly encounters with the white whale had taken place; there the
most significant one, by which you will not fail to see, that not only is
mother's son of ye draw his knife, and pull with the blade between his teeth.
much more than its length.  Floating on the waves we saw the abandoned boat, as
multiplied the chances that each subsequently encountered whale would prove to
murderous savage Annawon, the headmost warrior of the Indian King Philip.  I
must have been that, in Ahab's case, yielding up all his thoughts and fancies
my frock, here goes a cool, collected dive at death and destruction, and the
my good boys, said Starbuck, in the lowest possible but intensest
myself, have known three instances similar to this; that is in two of them I
narrating to them some specific example of this two-fold enormousness, they
narrative in this book; and, indeed, as indirectly touching one or two very
natives of the Manillas; --a race notorious for a certain diabolism of
nature and long habituation far too wedded to a fiery whaleman's ways,
necessity, and sideways in its motions directed by free will, though thus
negro, stooping a little, presented his flat palm to Flask's foot, and then
neither ship nor boat to be seen.  Give way, men, whispered Starbuck, drawing
never tempted it since.  At this day Captain Pollard is a resident of
no means incapable of swaying him.  To accomplish his object Ahab must use
noble negro to every roll of the sea harmoniously rolled his fine form.  On
nobler than the rider.  Though truly vivacious, tumultuous, ostentatious
not alter her tides and her seasons for that.  Meanwhile Stubb, the third mate,
not the dead man's ghost encountering
noways more significantly manifested than in his superlative sense and
oar.  Lay back!  addressing his crew.  There! --there! --there again!  There
oars!  cried Starbuck.  Thou, Queequeg, stand up!  Nimbly springing up on
obscure background (for few men's courage is proof against protracted
occasion, I felt all the easier; a stone was rolled away from my heart.
ocean.  The wind increased to a howl; the waves dashed their bucklers
odd sort of wayward mood I am speaking of, comes over a man only in some time
of Flask to that whale, as he called the fictitious monster which he
of all hopes of cash --aye, cash.  They may scorn cash now; but let some months
of ancient Dampier's old chums --I found a little matter set down so like that
of common occurrence in this kind of life; considering that at the
of extreme tribulation; it comes in the very midst of his earnestness, so
of humorists, whose jollity is sometimes so curiously ambiguous, as to put
of latitude by five degrees of longitude; perpendicularly through each of
of many other instances from persons whose veracity in the matter there is no
of nearly two years, often endangered by serpents, savages, tigers, poisonous
of the ages; so that for the millionth time we say amen with Solomon --Verily
of the boat.  Suddenly Queequeg started to his feet, hollowing his hand to his
of the frantic thing, of which, for the time, it was no longer an integral.
of the general perils of the grand fishery, yet they have nothing like a
of their wonder; and so what with all this and Stubb's confident way of
of three hundred and sixty-five days and nights was before him; an interval
of unknown regions.  Meanwhile, the whale he had struck must also have been on
of unusual adventures as a sea-captain, this day resides in the village of
of which had had a death by a whale, some of them more than one, and three
of which was larger than the ship itself, lay almost at the surface of the
oft seen from the palmy beach of Ombay?  Was it not so, O New Zealand Jack!
often happen.  Mr. Stubb, said I, turning to that worthy, who, buttoned up
often with blind rage, as with wilful, deliberate designs of destruction to
oil.  No: the reason was this: that from the fatal experiences of the
on the intense countenance of the mate in the stern of the boat, they knew
one hundred and fifty leagues from the Main of America, our ship felt a
one or two other things, which to me seem important, as in printed form
only tending to that; free will still free to ply her shuttle between given
operations; he made two several attacks upon the ship, at a short interval
opinion.  Here are his reflections some time after quitting the ship, during
opposite quarter --this deceitfulness of his could not now be in action; for
or even frustrate it.  it might be that a long interval would elapse ere the
other boats had got fast; but hardly were they overheard, when with a
other side; --all these, with the cries of the headsmen and harpooneers, and
others to show the number of days in which whales, sperm or right, have been
our own particular boat was chiefly to be
out of bodily eyes, when what seemed Ahab rushed from his room, was for the
over the seas, from hundreds of whalemen's look-outs perched as high in the
over you half suspended in air, so wildly and eagerly peering towards the
paramount importance of his life to the success of the voyage, it is right for
parted by
particular grounds, yet in general you cannot conclude that the herds which
particularly questioned him concerning this passage in Langsdorff.  He
party, and penetrated far into the interior, where he travelled for a period
paused on their way.  The whales had irregularly settled bodily down into the
peculiarities as distinguished from other whales; for however peculiar in
peculiarities by killing him, and boiling him down into a peculiarly valuable
pequod to visit either of those spots at any subsequent corresponding season,
performing now the office of life-preservers.  So, cutting the lashing of the
perhaps.  Though the gregarious sperm whales have their regular seasons for
period of more than fifty years.  A fact thus set down in substantial history
perishing, --an oar or a lance pole.
phantoms that seemed fresh formed out of air.
philosophically drawled Stubb, who, with his unlighted short pipe,
plank of her has been seen since.  After the severest exposure, part of the
planting his feet firmly against two opposite planks of the boat, the gigantic
platform.  it is used for catching turns with the whale line.  Its top is not
point is this: The Sperm Whale is in some cases sufficiently powerful,
port to heave down and repair.  I am not superstitious, but I consider the
posture in his boat, even when pitched about by the most riotously perverse
power and malice at times of the sperm whale.  In more than one instance, he
practically or reliably known to me as a whaleman; and from these citations,
precise species this sea-monster was, is not mentioned.  But as he destroyed
predicted interval in any one sign of the Zodiac.  There it was, too, that
premature hour of the Pequod's sailing had, perhaps, been correctly selected
prescribed to by both, chance by turns rules either, and has the last
present day, but that these marvels (like all marvels) are mere repetitions
previous got abroad among them, though indeed not credited then, this had in
principle or soul in him; and in sleep, being for the time dissociated from
probabilities, and, as Ahab fondly thought, every possibility the next thing
profession.  be all this as it may, his voice was now often heard hailing the
profit hand in hand!  Aye, aye, I thought as much, soliloquized Stubb,
prolonged abode.  And where Ahab's chances of accomplishing
prudent Starbuck's boat; and finally considering in what a devil's chase I was
pull, and keep pulling; nothing more.  Crack all your backbones, and bite
pull; never mind the brimstone --devils are good fellows enough.  So, so;
pulled more apart; Starbuck giving chase to three whales running dead to
pulling for dear life, and yet pulling for the mere joke of the thing.
punches in the side bestowed by the unseen and unaccountable old joker.  That
purpose, Ahab in all his thoughts and actions ever had in view the ultimate
putting Flask's hand on his hearse-plumed head and bidding him spring as he
quiescent cash all at once mutinying in them, this same cash would soon
raised the ship three feet at least out of the water.  The masts reeled, and
rammed home the loading with his thumb-end; but hardly had he ignited his
ranging ahead of the other boats; a circumstance bespeaking how potent a crew
rapscallions; ye are all asleep.  Stop snoring, ye sleepers, and pull.  Pull,
recklessly standing upon the top of the loggerhead, a stout sort of post
recur.  One reason perhaps is, that not one in fifty of the actual disasters
reflections, until day again made its appearance.  In another place --p. 45,
related to Ahab personally.  Having impulsively, it is probable, and perhaps
relieved the Indian at the main-mast head.  The sailors at the fore and
renown; not only was he famous in life and now is immortal in forecastle
reporting even a porpoise.  This vigilance was not long without reward.
resolved into his own invisible self.  I was the attendant or page of
retain it in that dread expansion for several consecutive minutes.  But I must
right and left; the whales seemed separating their wakes.  The boats were
rooted in the keel, and rising some two feet above the level of the stern
round in the blocks; with a wallow, the three boats dropped into the sea;
row-locks.  Soon we were running through a suffusing wide veil of mist;
same time little King-Post was full of a large and tall ambition, so that
same undeviating and reliable uniformity.  And thereby whalemen distinguish
saw the monster sailing off with the utmost gravity and solemnity.  Captain
saw the whales struck; and, upon the second attack, saw the two irons with
say, and burst all your livers and lungs!  But what it was that inscrutable
sceptical touching the amazing strength ascribed to them by the professional
sea like three samphire baskets over high cliffs.  Outside of the bulwarks
seas far remote from his periodical feeding-grounds, should turn up his
season; though there are peculiar and unquestionable instances where the
secret confidential agents on the water of the devil, their lord, whose
secured there; the whale towing her great hull through the water, as a
seek can be established upon testimony entirely independent of my own.  That
seemed scarcely entitled to a moment's thought; the dismal looking wreck,
seemed their forerunning couriers and detached flying outriders.  All four
seemed, were flitting on the other side of the deck, and, with a noiseless
seems but a part of the general
seen no more till it came up weltering astern.  Again we swam for it, were
seen pulling the harpooneer oar, he had thrown aside his black jacket, and
seen.
set like a flint from Stubb's.  What think ye of those yellow boys, sir!
several of the whales were wounded; when, suddenly, a very large whale
shadows of Fate, and by those wild cries announcing their coming.  There she
shadows of night; no sign of the ship could be seen.  The rising sea forbade
shaking myself in my jacket to fling off the water; Queequeg, my fine
she blows right ahead, boys! -- lay back!  Never heed yonder yellow boys,
sheep's ear!  And here, his mad mind would run on in a breathless race; till
ship, which was in full sail, was almost upon him, so that it was
ships, as well as for other reasons, he must have been a whale; and I am
shrewdness in foreseeing that, for the present, the hunt should in some way
sign from Ahab, Starbuck was now pulling obliquely across Stubb's bow; and
sign over to you my Martha's Vineyard plantation, boys; including wife and
sir, if ye please!  Halloa!  returned Starbuck, turning round not a single
sixty degrees of latitude arrive in the equatorial Pacific in time to cruise
sloop-of-war of the first class, happened to be dining with a party of
snow-white hump, could not but be unmistakable.  And have I not tallied the
so smite his stout sloop-of-war as to cause her to leak so much as a
so strictly according with the wildness of his ruling passion, yet were by
soaked through just like me, he gave me to understand that such things did
solace the languishing interval with his pipe.  He withdrew it from his
some days we had very little wind; it was not till the nineteenth that a
some one or two of his men to snatch a fearful look over the shoulder.  But
some ordinary, prudential, circumstantial influences were brought to bear upon
some small measure prepared them for the event.  It took off the extreme edge
somewhat prematurely revealed the prime but private purpose of the Pequod's
soothingly sighed Stubb to his crew, some of whom still showed signs of
sort of genial, desperado philosophy; and with it I now regarded this whole
sound as of fifty elephants stirring in their litter.  Meanwhile the boat was
specimen of his sermonizings that he ever flew into downright passions with
sperm whale, once struck, is allowed time to rally, he then acts, not so
sperm whales, and that the more monsters he slew by so much the more he
sperm whales.  So that though Moby Dick had in a former year been seen, for
spice to the fun, that no oarsman could hear such queer invocations without
spite of their amazement the men sprang over the rail; the sheaves whirled
stand in a sort of corporeal relation.  Starbuck's body and Starbuck's coerced
starboard quarter.  The figure that now stood by its bows was tall and swart,
stare at?  Those chaps in yonder boat?  Tut!  They are only five more hands
staring mad: See!  see that white water!  And so shouting, he pulled his hat
statement of the entire case.  Considering, therefore, that squalls and
stating that a great earthquake, somewhere about that time, did actually do
steel-bits.  Start her --start her, my silver-spoons!  Start her,
steering oar as in a thousand boat lowerings ere the White Whale had torn him.
stern like a crazed colt from the prairie.  Look at that chap now,
still booming through the mist, the waves curling and hissing around us like
still further aft the sheet of his sail; there is time to kill a fish yet
still he knew that for all this the chief mate, in his soul, abhorred his
stopped on the way by a portly sperm whale, that begged a few moments'
stories after death, but he was admitted into all the rights, privileges,
stranger and stronger emotions than that man does, who for the first time
strangers at such a critical instant as the lowering of the boats from the
street, lest if they pursued the acquaintance further, they might receive a
strength, which periodically started the boat along the water like a
stretched out like a wand, and at brief sudden intervals he continued his
stroke to sweep the stakes!  Hurrah for the gold cup of sperm oil, my heroes!
strong emotion mankind disdain all base considerations; but such times are
strongly inclined to think a sperm whale.  And I will tell you why.  For a
strongly, or weakly, as the case might be; and by this difference in the
substance called brit is to be found, the aliment of the right whale.  But I
substantiates every word.
subtilty, and by some honest white mariners supposed to be the paid spies and
such a chart is in course of completion; and portions of it are presented in
such a marvellous cadence as from Tashtego the Indian's.  As he stood hovering
such a thwack, that with all his pumps going he made straight for the nearest
suddenness of the shock made the guns leap in their carriages, and several of
summary thump for their presumption.  But not only did each of these famous
superlatively critical instant of going on to the whale I must resign my life
superstitious surmisings; though the affair still left abundant room for all
surging, hollow roar they made, as they rolled along the eight gunwales, like
suspected.  They were hidden down there.  The White Whale's at the bottom of
swerved from its ultimate course --its every alternating vibration, indeed,
swiftly slid aft, and then erecting himself volunteered his lofty shoulders
technical phrase --the Season-on-the-Line.  For there and then, for several
technically called the captain's, on account of its hanging from the
terrible shock, which put our men in such consternation that they could
than that; the man who darted them happening, in the interval, to go in a
that going plump on a flying whale with your sail set in a foggy squall is the
that had each lost a boat's crew.  For God's sake, be economical with your
that imbecile candle in the heart of that almighty forlornness.  There, then,
that path, migrating whales may with great confidence be looked for.  And
that poor fellow there, who this moment perhaps caught by the whale-line off
that respect any chance whale may be, they soon put an end to his
that storm.  Meanwhile the driving scud, rack, and mist, grew darker with the
that the imminent instant had come; they heard, too, an enormous wallowing
that those seas are not, and perhaps never can be, in the present
that what just before might have seemed to him a thing most momentous, now
the Pequod had sailed from Nantucket at the very beginning of the
the White Whale might have possibly extended itself in some degree to all
the base of a cataract; and then the vast hull rolled over it, and it was
the beginning.  For me, I silently recalled the mysterious shadows I had seen
the characterizing mind, which at other times employed it for its outer
the coast of New Guinea, is being carried down to the bottom of the sea by
the command.  Captain Ahab?-- said Starbuck.  Spread yourselves, cried Ahab;
the deck he would seek to recover his strength.  Ah, God!  what trances of
the deck, concluding that we had struck upon some rock; instead of this we
the devious zig-zag world-circle of the Pequod's circumnavigating wake.  But
the erected crests of enraged serpents.  That's his hump.  There, there,
the exact minute to Ahab.  The ship was now kept away from the wind, and she
the first unknown phantom in the other world; --neither of these can feel
the history of the plagues of Egypt.  But fortunately the special point I here
the iron, escaped.  Though completely swamped, the boat was nearly unharmed.
the live coals down the chimney of a flaming furnace as hail those boats in
the loggerhead itself, under such circumstances.  But the sight of little
the men were shaken out of their hammocks.  Captain Davis, who lay with his
the mere sight of such a yawning commander, by sheer force of contrast,
the most marvellous event in this book corroborated by plain facts of the
the open sea, on our way to Ochotsh.  The weather was very clear and fine,
the pursuit of whales is always under great and extraordinary difficulties;
the respective marks cut in them, afterwards taken from the dead fish.  In the
the sailors, goat-like, leaped down the rolling ship's side into the tossed
the sails fell altogether, while we who were below all sprang instantly upon
the seamen were lazily lounging about the decks, or vacantly gazing over
the ship.  dashing his forehead against her hull, he so stove her in, that
the shock to an earthquake, and seems to substantiate the imputation by
the shuddering gasps of the oarsmen, with the wondrous sight of the ivory
the sounding leviathan --do you suppose that that poor fellow's name will
the storm.  The sound came nearer and nearer; the thick mists were dimly
the suspended craft seemed a coral boat grown up to us from the bottom of the
the swart Fedallah and his crew, the inmates of the other boats obeyed not
the triangular raised box in the bow, the savage stood erect there, and with
the whale-ship's mast-heads, when circumspectly gliding along this magic
thee; and he whose intense thinking thus makes him a Prometheus; a vulture
their eager crews with one hand clung to the rail, while one foot was
their fish and returned to the ship in good time.  The ship had given us up,
their holy sepulchre, without committing burglaries, picking pockets, and
their last wills and testaments, but there are no people in the world more
their one final and romantic object --that final and romantic object, too many
their regular soundings, not a temporary dive from mere fright; and if that
then, you properly put these statements together, and reason upon them a bit,
there did about Rinaldo Rinaldini, insomuch that most fishermen were
there is nothing new under the sun.  In the sixth Christian century lived
there was no reason to suppose that the fish seen by Tashtego had been in any
there you are now; that's the stroke for a thousand pounds; that's the
there.  Therefore, he must wait for the next ensuing season.  Yet the
there.  This boat had always been deemed one of the spare boats, though
these, and death itself, seem to him only sly, good-natured hits, and jolly
they are!  To a landsman, no whale, nor any sign of a herring, would have
they give chase to Moby Dick, they must also have food for their more common,
they say at times assumed the semblance of a snow-white cross against the sky?
thimbleful.  Very good; but there is more coming.  Some weeks after, the
things, a place for his habitual gregarious resort.  But further
things, and I am not.  Will you tell me whether it is an unalterable law in
thirteenth of May our ship was ready to sail, and the next day we were out in
this catastrophe I have never chanced to encounter, though from the whale
this fish from other tribes of his genus.  There go flukes!  was now the cry
this fishery, Mr. Flask, for an oarsman to break his own back pulling himself
this loggerhead stand-point of his did by no means satisfy King-Post.  I
this was against all rule; for the oarsmen must put out their eyes, and ram
thither, he says, about four o'clock in the morning, when we were about
those waters for awhile, as the sun, in its annual round, loiters for a
thou terror of all cruisers that crossed their wakes in the vicinity of the
thought Ahab, is sordidness.  Granting that the White Whale fully incites the
thought I might as well go below and make a rough draft of my will.
thoughts through the day, carried them on amid a clashing of phrensies, and
threads of the warp subject to but one single, ever returning, unchanging
threads; and chance, though restrained in its play within the right lines of
three instances, then, which I personally know the truth of; but I have heard
three mast-heads and admonishing them to keep a bright look-out, and not omit
three-year instance, it so fell out that I was in the boat both times, first
through each of which districts are three lines; one to show the number of
thus marked was not altogether and originally owing to his bodily
time but a vacated thing, a formless somnambulistic being, a ray of living
time his ship was utterly lost, and forthwith forswearing the sea, he has
time of the tragedy; I have read his plain and faithful narrative; I have
time or place were attained, when all possibilities would become
times were not content to traverse two thousand miles of land to fight for
to John Ferdinando, as he calls the modern Juan Fernandes.  In our way
to a certainty.  That particular set time and place were conjoined in the one
to cover a large expanse of water.  but with all their eyes again riveted upon
to evince all his well known passionate interest in the general pursuit of his
to his one supreme purpose; that purpose, by its own sheer inveteracy of
to the Pacific, among many others we spoke thirty different ships, every one
together; the whole squall roared, forked, and crackled around us like a
tools; and of all tools used in the shadow of the moon, men are most apt to
torments does that man endure who is consumed with one unachieved revengeful
tornado brow, and eyes of red murder, and foam-glued lips, Ahab leaped after
tortoise with mystic hieroglyphics upon the back!  In plain prose, here are
tossed helter-skelter into the white curdling cream of the squall.  Squall,
trading ship on a voyage to Africa, went ashore there, joined a discovery
tranquillize his unquiet heart as to postpone all intervening quest.  Now,
triangularly platformed level with the gunwale, Starbuck himself was seen
trowsers of the same dark stuff.  But strangely crowning his ebonness was a
two legs man is but a hobbling wight in all times of danger; considering that
unbidden and unfathered birth.  Therefore, the tormented spirit that glared
understood, and moreover to take away any incredulity which a profound
uneasiness.  Why don't you break your backbones, my boys?  What is it you
unerring binnacle compasses.  He did not say much to his crew, though, nor
unexaggerating historian, except in some one or two particulars, not at all
unsuppressable symptoms of some latent weakness, or fright at his own resolve,
upon my soul, I had no more idea of being facetious than Moses, when he wrote
upon the sea.  The jets of vapor no longer blended, but tilted everywhere to
usurpation, and the possible consequences of such a suppressed impression
utterly destroy, and sink a large ship; and what is more, the Sperm Whale has
vehicle or agent, it spontaneously sought escape from the scorching contiguity
very moment is in his impetuousness upon the point of scuttling the craft
very much, my fine fellow; only I wish you fifty feet taller.  Whereupon
vessels, were finally gone in quest of, systematically hunted out, chased and
vibration, and that vibration merely enough to admit of the crosswise
visible and invisible, never mind how knobby; as an ostrich of potent
voyage of the Pequod, and the great White Whale its object.  Queequeg, said
voyage, Ahab was now entirely conscious that, in so doing, he had indirectly
voyage; observe all customary usages; and not only that, but force himself
warrant me in concluding that it was anything but chance which directed his
was pulling him.  those tiger yellow creatures of his seemed all steel and
was the half-hissed reply.  Lower away then; d'ye hear?  shouting across the
watches, his officers and men must have some nearer things to think of than
water, and thin scattered puffs of vapor hovering over it, and suffusingly
water, but was not perceived by any one on board till the moment when the
water, carelessly and unthinkingly drove home every yarn: I say so strange a
water-proof match keg, after many failures Starbuck contrived to ignite the
waves were storied with his deeds; there also was that tragic spot where the
waves, that almost seemed threatening to cut it in two; the sudden profound
way alarmed, or indeed knew at all of our vicinity.  One of the men selected
weaving away at the Fates.  There lay the fixed
went gently rolling before it.  Tashtego reporting that the whales had gone
were but the plainest tokens of its intensity.  For, at such times, crazy
were locked up in my chest.  I looked round me tranquilly and contentedly,
were of that vivid, tiger-yellow complexion peculiar to some of the aboriginal
were the case, Stubb, as his wont in such cases, it seems, was resolved to
were thrust out; the mainyard was backed, and the three boats swung over the
whale again came together, and the one vanquished the other.  I say I,
whale could, by the same route, pass out of the Mediterranean into the
whale face foremost.  Ha, ha!  the whale would give them squint for squint,
whale, Ahab would mutter to himself, as after poring over his charts till
whale, and harpoon had all blended together; and the whale, merely grazed by
whale-bone; like five trip-hammers they rose and fell with regular strokes of
whale.  The dancing white water made by the chase was now becoming more and
whales enjoy great individual celebrity --nay, you may call it an ocean-wide
whaling captains, on board a Nantucket ship in the harbor of Oahu, Sandwich
what is called a sword-mat, for an additional lashing to our boat.  So still
whatever way-side, antecedent, extra prospects were his, ere a particular set
when for a minute or so the two boats were pretty near to each other, Stubb
when the boats diverged, as soon as I clapt eye on 'em, I thought so.  Aye,
when the two irons, both marked by the same private cypher, have been taken
whence that voice dropped like a wing.  High aloft in the cross-trees was that
where the lines attached to
which districts are twelve columns for the twelve months; and horizontally
which he sailed from home.  In that up and down manly book of old-fashioned
which we had just before entered, and in which we had struck three of his
which, instead of impatiently enduring ashore, he would spend in a
while, with a dexterous, off-handed daring, unknown in any other vocation,
whirled them round and round in his blazing brain, till the very throbbing of
white fire upon the prairie, in which, unconsumed, we were burning; immortal
white-turbaned old man at their head, All ready there, Fedallah?  Ready,
who so long did'st lurk in the Oriental straits of that name, whose spout was
widest expanses of water between those grounds he could, by his art, so place
will were Ahab's, so long as Ahab kept his magnet at Starbuck's brain;
will ye?  pull, can't ye?  pull, won't ye?  Why in the name of gudgeons and
will, forced itself against gods and devils into a kind of self-assumed,
with glaring eyes Ahab would burst from his state room, as though escaping
with his own frantic stampings; considering that the particular disaster to
with one white tooth evilly protruding from its steel-like lips.  A rumpled
with several more examples, one way or another known to me, of the great
wonderful old man!  I don't think it so strange, after all, on that
wonders of the world, that without some hints touching the plain facts,
wondrous habitude of unconscious skill the whaleman will maintain an erect
would have turned from in disgust.  I will not strip these men, thought Ahab,
wrest from him the command.  From even the barely hinted imputation of
wrinkled brow off the Persian Gulf, or in the Bengal Bay, or China Seas, or
ye, Cabaco?  They are stowaways, Mr. Flask.  Pull, pull, my fine
you dogs!  So, so, so, then; --softly, softly!  That's it -- that's it!  long
you know.  I don't know that, my little man; I never yet saw him kneel.
your knives in two -- that's all.  Take it easy --why don't ye take it easy, I
zone.  The sum is, that at particular seasons within that breadth and along
