





















     As Queequeg's Ramadan, or Fasting and
     Because it's dangerous, says she.  Ever since young Stiggs coming from that
     Come hither to me --hither, hither, said Peleg, with a significance in his
     Fiery pit!  fiery pit!  ye insult me, man; past all natural bearing, ye
     I had heard something of both Captain Peleg and his unaccountable old crony
     In bed we concocted our plans for the morrow.
     Thou knowest best, was the sepulchral reply, the seven hundred and
     Well, Captain Bildad, interrupted Peleg, what d'ye say, what lay shall we
     What do you mean, sir?  Was the other one lost by a whale?  Lost by a whale!
     Who is Captain Ahab, sir?  Aye, aye, I thought so.  Captain Ahab is the
     Young man, come nearer to me: it was devoured, chewed up, crunched by the
     accidental advantages, to learn a bold and nervous lofty language --that man
     and seated himself at a little table.  I began to think it was high time to
     her original grotesqueness, and inlaid it, all over, with a quaintness both
     here needs the grindstone.  That's he; thank ye, Bildad.  Now then, my young
     it's better to sail with a moody good captain than a laughing bad one.  So
     lays, and that these lays were proportioned to the degree of importance
     though he twitched a little as if still nervously agitated.  Whew!  he
     thy last Captain, didst thou? --Dost not think of murdering the officers when
     you never saw such a rare old craft as this same rare old Pequod.  She was a
-- come along with ye.  And so saying, he led the way below deck into the
--and Yojo had told him two or three times over, and strongly insisted upon it
--ever been in a stove boat?  No, Sir, I never have.  Dost know nothing at
--something like me --only there's a good deal more of him.  Aye, aye, I know
.. < chapter xvi 2  THE SHIP >
.. < chapter xvii 2  THE RAMADAN >
.. <p 67 >
.. <p 68 >
.. <p 69 >
.. <p 70 >
.. <p 71 >
.. <p 72 >
.. <p 73 >
.. <p 74 >
.. <p 75 >
.. <p 76 >
.. <p 77 >
.. <p 78 >
.. <p 79 >
.. <p 80 >
.. <p 81 >
.. <p 82 >
Ahab of old, thou knowest, was a crowned king!  And a very vile one.  When
Ahab well; I've sailed with him as mate years ago; I know what he is--a
And, after signing the papers, off I went; nothing doubting but that I had
Any how, young man, he won't always see me, so I don't suppose he will thee.
Bildad, but with a marvellous oblique, sliding celerity, Bildad for that
Bildad, if I had followed thy advice in these matters, I would afore now had
Bildad, said Peleg, he wants to ship.  Dost thee?  said Bildad, in a
Bildad, who always sat so, and never leaned, and this to save his coat
Bildad, without noticing his present irreverence, quietly looked up, and
Bildad; how that they being the principal proprietors of the Pequod,
Bildad?  As if long habituated to such profane talk from his old shipmate,
But I said nothing, only looking round me sharply.  Peleg now threw open a
But to my surprise and no small concern, Queequeg now gave me to understand,
Canterbury Cathedral where Beckett bled.  But to all these her old
Captain Ahab?
Captain Peleg was one of the largest owners of the vessel; the other shares,
Captain Peleg.  Well, bring him along then.
Captain himself.  Thou art speaking to Captain Peleg --that's who ye are
Captain of the Pequod, what dost thou want of him?  he demanded.  I was
Captain of this ship.  I am mistaken then.  I thought I was speaking to the
Fishiest of all fishy places was the Try Pots, which well deserved its name;
French grenadier's, who has alike fought in Egypt and Siberia.  Her
He's a queer man, Captain Ahab --so some think --but a good one.  Oh, thou'lt
However, my thoughts were at length carried in other directions, so that for
Humiliation, was to continue all day, I did not choose to disturb him till
I softly through the key-hole: --all silent.  I say, Queequeg!  why don't you
I stepped aside from the door to give egress to Bildad, who, I made no doubt,
I thought that the 275th lay would be about the fair thing, but would not
I was already aware that in the whaling business they paid no wages; but all
I was also aware that being a green hand at whaling, my own lay would not be
Japanese junks; butter-box galliots, and what not; but take my word for it,
Nantucket Quakerism, but all his subsequent ocean life, and the sight of many
Now, Bildad, like Peleg, and indeed many other Nantucketers,
Peleg was vainly trying to mend a pen with his jack-knife, old Bildad, to my
Peleg, at it again, Bildad, eh?  Ye have been studying those Scriptures,
Peleg, many years her chief-mate, before he commanded another vessel of his
Pequod fitted out for the voyage, and supplied with all her needs, including
Pequod, --this old Peleg, during the term of his chief-mateship, had built upon
Pequod.  Never say it anywhere.  Captain Ahab did not name himself. 'Twas a
Pequod?  said I, advancing to the door of the tent.  Supposing it be the
Pottowotamie Sachem's head.  A triangular opening faced towards the bows of
Quakers; they are Quakers with a vengeance.  So that there are instances among
Queequeg placed great confidence in the excellence of Yojo's judgment and
Queequeg was about to precede me up the stairs, the lady reached forth her
Queequeg's, or rather Yojo's, touching the selection of our craft; I did not
Queequeg, ain't that a live eel in your bowl?  Where's your harpoon?
Queequeg, then, fasting on his tomahawk pipe, and Yojo warming himself at
Ramadan, or day of fasting, humiliation, and prayer with Queequeg and Yojo
Scandinavian sea-king, or a poetical Pagan Roman.  And when these things unite
The seven hundred and seventy-seventh lay, Captain Peleg.  Thou Bildad!
The space between the decks was small; and there, bolt-upright, sat old
There was a fishy flavor to the milk, too, which I could not at all account
Vineyard.  But what takes thee a-whaling?  I want to know that before I think
Yojo had provided to carry Queequeg and me round the Cape.  But I had not
Yojo in our little bedroom --for it seemed that it was some sort of Lent or
a conscience to lug about that would be heavy enough to founder the largest
about the value of a timber head, or a foot of plank, or a nail or two in the
about what whaling is; do ye yet feel inclined for it?  I do, sir.  Very
acquiesce; and accordingly prepared to set about this business with a
adventure of their subsequent lives, strangely blend with these unoutgrown
ain't Captain Bildad; no, and he ain't Captain Peleg; he's Ahab, boy; and
alarmed by his energy, perhaps also a little touched at the hearty grief in
alarmed.  I had allowed him such abundant time; I thought he might have had
alike --for we are all somehow dreadfully cracked about the head, and sadly
all about whaling, I dare say --eh?  Nothing, Sir; but I have no doubt I
all describe, was not exactly awe; I do not know what it was.  But I felt
all pass off.  And once for all, let me tell thee and assure thee, young man,
ambition, all mortal greatness is but disease.  But, as yet we have not to
an apoplectic fit.  I looked through the key-hole; but the door opening into
an odd corner of the room, the key-hole prospect was but a crooked and
and Hosea Hussey had his account books bound in superior old shark-skin.
and board, for which I would not have to pay one stiver.  It might be thought
and calms of all four oceans, her old hull's complexion was darkened like a
and no possible mistake.  Queequeg! --Queequeg! --all still.  Something must
and pryed about the Devil-Dam; from her, hopped over to the Tit-bit; and,
and responsible owners of the ship, and feeling half a mind to give up all
and rituals must be over, I went up to his room and knocked at the door; but
and the Pequod was as good a ship as any --I thought the best -- and all this I
and the pequod.  devil- dam, i do not know the origin of; tit-bit is
and then jump after it?  Answer, quick!  I am, sir, if it should be
annuitants; widows, fatherless children, and chancery wards; each owning
antiquities, were added new and marvellous features, pertaining to the wild
apparelled like any barbaric Ethiopian emperor, his neck heavy with pendants
appearance of the elderly man I saw; he was brown and brawny, like most old
are called serious things, and indeed deemed those selfsame serious things
arm, and demanded his harpoon; she allowed no harpoon in her chambers.  Why
as a rather good sort of god, who perhaps meant well enough upon the whole,
as all my remonstrances produced no effect upon Queequeg, I was obliged to
as is sometimes the case in these ports, being held by a crowd of old
authority, in order to propose myself as a candidate for the voyage, at
away, I was full of thoughtfulness; what had been incidentally revealed to
been a kind of moody --desperate moody, and savage sometimes; but that will
being an incorrigible old hunks, and in his sea-going days, a bitter, hard
better than nothing; and if we had a lucky voyage, might pretty nearly pay
bound to hell.  Flukes and flames!  Bildad, say that again to me, and start
brief, that if the captain have a family, or any absorbing concernment of
broad ends on the deck, a circle of these slabs laced together, mutually
broad shad-bellied waistcoat; from that becoming boat-header, chief-mate, and
broad-shouldered make.  But one thing, nevertheless, that made me a little
burying himself.  Oh!  never thee mind about that, Bildad, said Peleg.  Has
business that for more than half a century she had followed.  Old Captain
but in all cases did not succeed in his benevolent designs.  Now, this plan of
but what the stingy old Bildad might have a mighty deal to say about shipping
cabin.  seated on the transom was what seemed to me a most uncommon and
captain makes himself visible by arriving to take command; for sometimes these
captain, and finally a ship-owner; Bildad, as I hinted before, had concluded
carved buckler or bedstead.  She was
causes the muscles about the eyes to become pursed together.  Such
chance; and in that vessel I must immediately ship myself, for the present
chest, and drawing forth the ship's articles, placed pen and ink before him,
child: hold ye then there can be any utter, hopeless harm in Ahab?  No, no,
chowder for dinner, and chowder for supper, till you began to look for
christians should be charitable in these things, and not fancy ourselves so
claw-footed look about her.  Long seasoned and weather-stained in the typhoons
concealed in this queer tenement, I at length found one who by his aspect
concerning him.  And somehow, at the time, I felt a sympathy and a sorrow for
consider the duty thou owest to the other owners of this ship-- widows and
consistency about worthy Captain Bildad.  Though refusing, from conscientious
content; and there let him rest.  All our arguing with him would not avail;
corrupt, but lay--" Lay, indeed, thought I, and such a lay!  the seven
corrupt.  It was an exceedingly long lay that, indeed; and though from the
craft in your day, for aught I know; --squared-toed luggers; mountainous
crew.  We are part owners and agents.  But as I was going to say, if thou
cried Peleg, Thou dost not want to swindle this young man!  he must have
dangerous weepons in their rooms at night.  So, Mr. Queequeg (for she had
day; how it was I never could find out, for, though I applied myself to it
decided that this was the very ship for us.  You may have seen many a quaint
decks were worn and wrinkled, like the pilgrim-worshipped flag-stone in
determined rushing sort of energy and vigor, that should quickly settle that
directions from Mrs. Hussey concerning the nearest way to bed; but, as
distrustful about receiving a generous share of the profits was this: Ashore,
do with such an one, but with quite another; and still a man, who, if indeed
do, said Bildad, eyeing me, and then went on spelling away at his book in a
don't take to be the fact.  Good again.  Now then, thou not only wantest to
don't think thou wilt be able to at present.  I don't know exactly what's the
done a good morning's work, and that the Pequod was the identical ship that
doubloons; and so I thought at the time.  Why, blast your eyes, Bildad,
drab-colored eye intently looking at you, made you feel completely nervous,
earnestly enjoined that the selection of the ship should rest wholly with me,
enough; thou art shipped.  Yes, but I should like to see him.  But I
entertaining the most absurd notions about Yojo and his Ramadan; --but what of
especially as Peleg, his friend and old shipmate, seemed such a blusterer.
everyway, that instead of our going together among the whaling-fleet in
eye that almost startled me.  Look ye, lad; never say that on board the
eye-wrinkles are very effectual in a scowl.  Is this the Captain of the
farthing is a good deal less than seven hundred and seventy-seven gold
ferocity in that particular whale, though indeed I might have inferred as
finally, going on board the Pequod, looked around her for a moment, and then
first I saw nobody; but I could not well overlook a strange sort of tent, or
fish-bones coming through your clothes.  The area before the house was paved
fishermen's boats, I saw Hosea's brindled cow feeding on fish remnants, and
flesh, no superfluous beard, his chin having a soft, economical nap to it,
flukes!  man, what makes thee want to go a whaling, eh? --it looks a little
foolish, ignorant whim of his crazy, widowed mother, who died when he was
footmanism quite unprecedented in other planets, bow down before the torso
for one, shall not lay up many lays here below, where moth and rust do
for the clothing I would wear out on it, not to speak of my three years' beef
for the pots there were always boiling chowders.  Chowder for breakfast, and
for the three hundredth lay.  Captain Peleg, said I, I have a friend with
for, till one morning happening to take a stroll along the beach among some
fortunes, and am quite content if the world is ready to board and lodge me,
give this young man?
go a-whaling, to find out by experience what whaling is, but ye also want to
go in order to see the world?  Was not that what ye said?  I thought so.  Well
go round Cape Horn to see any more of it, eh?  Can't ye see the world where
good man --not a pious, good man, like Bildad, but a swearing good man
good-bye to thee --and wrong not Captain Ahab, because he happens to have a
good.  Now, art thou the man to pitch a harpoon down a live whale's throat,
gore.  How now in the contemplative evening of his days, the pious Bildad
great are made so through a certain morbidness.  Be sure of this, O young
greatly fear lest thy conscience be but a leaky one; and will in the end
gun --a straight wake with ye!  As he thundered out this he made a rush at
had not only been originally educated according to the strictest sect of
hair and horns on.  Out of the cabin, ye canting, drab-colored son of a wooden
half-crazy conceits on these subjects.  There was Queequeg, now, certainly
hands, especially as I now found him on board the Pequod, quite at home there
hands, including the captain, received certain shares of the profits called
hands.  Turning back I accosted Captain Peleg, inquiring where Captain Ahab
harbor, and in concert selecting our craft; instead of this, I say, Yojo
hard work out of them.  When Bildad was a chief-mate, to have his
hard-hearted to say the least.  He never used to swear, though, at his men,
harpoon in his side; ever since then I allow no boarders to take sich
have been surprised had I been offered the 200th, considering I was of a
have happened.  Apoplexy!  I tried to burst open the door; but it stubbornly
he ever whaled it any?  turning to me.  Killed more whales than I can count,
he had, there seemed no more left in him, and he, too, sat down like a lamb,
head?  What's that stultifying saying about chowder-headed people?  But look,
heart to undervalue even a congregation of ants worshipping a toad-stool; or
here at the north, been led to think untraditionally and independently;
hereditary foe.  The helmsman who steered by that tiller in a tempest, felt
high;  consisting of the long, huge slabs of limber black bone taken from
him, but for I don't know what, unless it was the cruel loss of his leg.  And
his adventurous career by wholly retiring from active life at the goodly age
his bleeding stump that brought that about, as any one might see.  I know,
his book, Lay not up for yourselves treasures upon earth, where moth--
his concluding exclamation, but said as calmly as I could, What you say is
his drab vesture was buttoned up to his chin; and spectacles on nose, he
his sacrificial fire of shavings, I sallied out among the shipping.  After
his utilitarian character.  On his long, gaunt body, he carried no spare
his vest.  Still, for all this immutableness, was there some lack of common
hollow tone, and turning round to me.  I dost, said I unconsciously, he was
home, were mostly all carried ashore to the hospital, sore exhausted and worn
humorously or in earnest.  But concentrating all his crow's feet into one
hundred and seventy-seventh!  Well, old Bildad, you are determined that I,
hundredth lay, I say.  Bildad laid down his book, and turning solemnly
i can't tell; but as thou art still an impenitent man, captain Peleg, I
idea of sailing in a vessel so questionably owned and temporarily commanded,
idleness perished from before him.  His own person was the exact embodiment of
if either by birth or other circumstances, he have what seems a half wilful
impenitent Peleg and his ways.  As for Peleg, after letting off his rage as
in a man of greatly superior natural force, with a globular brain and a
in colleges, as well as 'mong the cannibals; been used to deeper wonders than
in the cabin, and reading his Bible as if at his own fireside.  Now while
inasmuch as Yojo purposed befriending us; and, in order to do so, had already
individual circumstances.  Like Captain Peleg, Captain Bildad was a well-to-do,
infallibly light upon, for all the world as though it had turned out by
insulated Quakerish Nantucketer, was full of his insular prejudices, and
insult me.  It's an all-fired outrage to tell any human creature that he's
interlacing round his eyes, which must have arisen from his continual
invaded the Atlantic and Pacific; and though a sworn foe to human bloodshed,
irrespective of Queequeg.  I have forgotten to mention that, in many things,
is a pretty large number, yet, when you come to make a teenth of it, you
it; and it did not disincline me towards him; though I felt impatience at
lance!  aye, the keenest and the surest that out of all our isle!  Oh!  he
land wood, but deftly travelled over sheaves of sea-ivory.  Scorning a
learned his name), I will just take this here iron, and keep it for you till
leaves her to the owners till all is ready for sea.  However, it is always as
let him be, I say: and Heaven have mercy on us all --Presbyterians and Pagans
like him well enough; no fear, no fear.  he's a grand, ungodly, god-like
like mad, at something or other, never mind what.  Indolence and
like that plan at all.  I had not a little relied on Queequeg's sagacity to
like the Tartar, when he holds back his fiery steed by clutching its jaw.  A
like the worn nap of his broad-brimmed hat.  Such, then, was the person that I
little cabin-boy in short clothes of the drabbest drab, to a harpooneer in a
little out of his mind for a spell; but it was the sharp shooting pains in
long sharp teeth of the sperm whale, inserted there for pins, to fasten her
lungs are a sort of soft, d'ye see; thou dost not talk shark a bit.  Sure,
magnitude of the figure it might at first deceive a landsman, yet the
makes one in a whole nation's census --a mighty pageant creature, formed for
man, Captain Ahab; doesn't speak much; but, when he does speak, then you may
man, Ishmael's thy name, didn't ye say?  Well then, down ye go here, Ishmael,
marching along the sand with each foot in a cod's decapitated head, looking
matter with him; but he keeps close inside the house; a sort of sick, and
may tell thee the same.  I wish to warn thee.  It's a lie.  I know Captain
me of Captain Ahab, filled me with a certain wild vagueness of painfulness
me who wants to ship too --shall I bring him down to-morrow?  To be sure,
monstrousest parmacetty that ever chipped a boat! --ah, ah!  I was a little
more than that.  Seven hundred and seventy-seventh, again said Bildad,
morning.  But the chowder; clam or cod to-morrow for breakfast, men?  Both,
much from the simple fact of the accident.  Look ye now, young man, thy
much prolonged sauntering and many random inquiries, I learnt that there
mumbling tone quite audible.  I thought him the queerest old Quaker I ever saw,
my astonishment, he sat down again on the transom very quietly, and seemed
my lad; stricken, blasted, if he be, Ahab has his humanities!  As I walked
my soul-bolts, but I'll--I'll--yes, I'll swallow a live goat with all his
native born Quaker one single jot, had not so much as altered one angle of
need mending.  Towards evening, when I felt assured that all his performances
nett proceeds of the voyage, whatever that might eventually amount to.  And
night-watches in the remotest waters, and beneath constellations never seen
no answer.  I tried to open it, but it was fastened inside.  Queequeg, said
no doubt true enough, sir; but how could I know there was any peculiar
no small surprise, considering that he was such an interested party in these
noble craft, but somehow a most melancholy!  All noble things are touched
noble tragedies.  Nor will it at all detract from him, dramatically regarded,
not?  said I; every true whaleman sleeps with his harpoon --but why not?
now repeated to Peleg.  Seeing me so determined, he expressed his willingness
now, for the last thirty years, to my certain knowledge.  How far ye got,
obvious; Pequod, you will no doubt remember, was the name of a celebrated
of a deceased landed proprietor merely on account of the inordinate
of finding it out before ye bind yourself to it, past backing out.  Clap eye
of material and device, unmatched by anything except it be Thorkill-Hake's
of polished ivory.  She was a thing of trophies.  A cannibal of a craft,
of shipping ye.  Well, sir, I want to see what whaling is.  I want to see
of sixty, and dedicating his remaining days to the quiet receiving of his
of the marchant service to me again.  Marchant service indeed!  I suppose now
old hempen thews and tendons to.  Those thews ran not through base blocks of
on Captain Ahab, young man, and thou wilt find that he has only one leg.
on an old-fashioned oaken chair, wriggling all over with curious carving; and
only a twelvemonth old.  And yet the old squaw Tistig, at Gayhead, said that
only there was a fine and almost microscopic net-work of the minutest wrinkles
orphans, many of them --and that if we too abundantly reward the labors of this
out.  For a pious man, especially for a Quaker, he was certainly rather
over the weather bow, I perceived that the ship swinging to her anchor with
overruling morbidness at the bottom of his nature.  For all men tragically
own, and now a retired seaman, and one of the principal owners of the
particular, perhaps, about the
peculiar, it only results again from another phase of the Quaker, modified by
peculiarities of the Quaker, only variously and anomalously modified by
peculiarities, a thousand bold dashes of character, not unworthy a
pertaining to the respective duties of the ship's company.
pitched upon a vessel, which, if left to myself, I, Ishmael, should
point out the whaler best fitted to carry us and our fortunes securely.  But
ponderous heart; who has also by the stillness and seclusion of many long
positively indispensable to do so; not to be got rid of, that is; which I
possessions yet owned and rented in his name.  I say, we good Presbyterian
practical world quite another.  This world pays dividends.  Rising from a
previous had taken from him, before our mounting to the chamber.  That's
proceeded far, when I began to bethink me that the captain with whom I was to
proceedings; Bildad never heeded us, but went on mumbling to himself out of
prospect was unlimited, but exceedingly monotonous and forbidding; not the
puzzled by this curious request, not knowing exactly how to take it, whether
rather distrustful of all aliens, unless they hailed from Cape Cod or the
rather wigwam, pitched a little behind the main-mast.  It seemed only a
receiving all nature's sweet or savage impressions fresh from her own virgin
reconciled these things in the reminiscence, I do not know; but it did not
religious obligations, never mind how comical, and could not find it in my
retired whaleman.  But unlike Captain Peleg --who cared not a rush for what
roared Peleg, starting up and clattering about the cabin.  Blast ye, Captain
sage and sensible conclusion that a man's religion is one thing, and this
said peleg.  fetch him along, and we'll look at him.  What lay does he
sail yet remained unseen by me; though, indeed, in many cases, a whale-ship
sailings in many hard gales, and always looking to windward; --for this
saw seated on the transom when I followed Captain Peleg down into the cabin.
says I; and let's have a couple of smoked herring by way of variety.
scowl, Captain Peleg started me on the errand.  Going forward and glancing
scruples, to bear arms against land invaders, yet himself had illimitably
seamen, and heavily rolled up in blue pilot-cloth, cut in the Quaker style;
see that leg? --I'll take that leg away from thy stern, if ever thou talkest
seeing me, glanced again inquiringly towards Peleg.  He says he's our man,
seem to concern him much, and very probably he had long since come to the
seemed absorbed in reading from a ponderous volume.  Bildad, cried Captain
seemed to have authority; and who, it being noon, and the ship's work
seldom or never goes abroad without it, therefore he must be inside here,
settle with myself at what terms I would be willing to engage for the voyage.
seventy-seventh wouldn't be too much, would it? -- "where moth and rust do
several times, I never could master his liturgies and XXXIX Articles --leaving
shall soon learn.  I've been several voyages in the merchant service, and I
ship of the old school, rather small if anything; with an old fashioned
ship that ever sailed round Cape Horn.  Captain Peleg, said Bildad
ship.  People in Nantucket invest their money in whaling vessels, the same
should be offered at least the 275th lay --that is, the 275th part of the clear
sinister one.  I could only see part of the foot-board of the bed and a line of
sink thee foundering down to the fiery pit, Captain Peleg.
slightest consideration will show that though seven hundred and seventy-seven
slightest variety that I could see.  Well, what's the report?  said Peleg
sloped towards each other, and at the apex united in a tufted point, where
so intense a Quaker.  What do ye think of him, Bildad?  said Peleg.  He'll
speak?  It's I--Ishmael.  But all remained still as before.  I began to grow
speaking to, young man.  It belongs to me and Captain Bildad to see the
splice a rope, and all that, I made no doubt that from all I had heard I
steadily, thy conscience may be drawing ten inches of water, or ten fathoms,
stiffly up like the spines of the three old kings of Cologne.  Her ancient
story, that when he sailed the old Categut whaleman, his crew, upon arriving
strange, thought I; but at any rate, since the harpoon stands yonder, and he
stuff of which the wigwam was constructed.  There was nothing so very
surprising figure.  It turned out to be Captain Bildad, who along with
surprising forecast of things; and cherished Yojo with considerable esteem,
suspended, was now enjoying respite from the burden of command.  He was seated
suspicious, don't it, eh? --Hast not been a pirate, hast thou? --Didst not rob
sweet, resigned girl.  Think of that; by that sweet girl that old man has a
tails.  His broad-brim was placed beside him; his legs were stiffly crossed;
task-master.  They told me in Nantucket, though it certainly seems a curious
temporary erection used in port.  It was of a conical shape, some ten feet
that
that he had been diligently consulting Yojo --the name of his black little god
that he was never very jolly; and I know that on the passage home, he was a
that sort, he does not trouble himself much about his ship in port, but
that this was a poor way to accumulate a princely fortune --and so it was, a
that wicked king was slain, the dogs, did they not lick his blood?
that!  Mind what I said about the marchant service --don't aggravate me --I
that?  Queequeg thought he knew what he was about, I suppose; he seemed to be
the bottom of which was formed of a stout interlacing of the same elastic
the flood-tide, was now obliquely pointing towards the open ocean.  The
the island --and in childhood naturally imbibing the stately dramatic thee and
the loose hairy fibres waved to and fro like a top-knot on some old
the middle and highest part of the jaws of the right-whale.  Planted with their
the most sanguinary of all sailors and whale-hunters.  They are fighting
the name would somehow prove prophetic.  And, perhaps, other fools like her
the present dark Ahab slipped my mind.
the ship, so that the insider commanded a complete view forward.  And half
the three hundredth, said Peleg, do ye hear that, Bildad!  The three
the veriest of all trifles --Captain Bildad
the wall, but nothing more.  I was surprised to behold resting against the
the waves; fixed his fiery lance in mightier stranger foes than whales.  His
the whole management of the ship's affairs to these two.  And I did not know
the world.  Want to see what whaling is, eh?  Have ye clapped eye on
them of men, who, named with Scripture names --a singularly common fashion on
then back to me and tell me what ye see there.  For a moment I stood a little
then, just step forward there, and take a peep over the weather-bow, and
therefore the other and more inconsiderable and scattered owners, left nearly
they said; but somehow he got an inordinate quantity of cruel, unmitigated
things altogether alien and heterogeneous.  For some of these same Quakers are
think that-- Merchant service be damned.  Talk not that lingo to me.  Dost
think.  Well, what dost thou think then of seeing the world?  Do ye wish to
thinking of shipping.  Thou wast, wast thou?  I see thou are no Nantucketer
this day its inhabitants in general retain in an uncommon measure the
those other creatures in certain parts of our earth, who with a degree of
thou gettest to sea?  I protested my innocence of these things.  I saw that
thou of the Quaker idiom; still, from the audacious, daring, and boundless
though the 275th lay was what they call a rather long lay, yet it was
three barrels of ile, was found dead in my first floor back, with his
till you could clutch something --a hammer or a marling-spike, and go to work
tiller was in one mass, curiously carved from the long narrow lower jaw of her
time eluded him.  Alarmed at this terrible outburst between the two principal
to have not the slightest intention of withdrawing.  He seemed quite used to
to ship me.  And thou mayest as well sign the papers right off, he added
told you that I had been four voyages in the merchant-- Hard down out of
too, that ever since he lost his leg last voyage by that accursed whale, he's
towards him said, Captain Peleg, thou hast a generous heart; but thou must
towards night-fall; for I cherish the greatest respect towards everybody's
treasure is, there will your heart be also.  I am going to put him down for
tribe of Massachusetts Indians, now extinct as the ancient Medes.  I peered
tricking herself forth in the chased bones of her enemies.  All round, her
trifling little affair.  Next morning early, leaving Queequeg shut up with
turnstile wheel at her reverend helm, she sported there a tiller; and that
unclad, lovely island creatures, round the Horn --all that had not moved this
under the mask of these half humorous inuendoes, this old seaman, as an
unfort'nt v'y'ge of his, when he was gone four years and a half, with only
unpanelled, open bulwarks were garnished like one continuous jaw, with the
used to be good at sharpening a lance, mend that pen, will ye.  My jack-knife
vastly superior to other mortals, pagans and what not, because of their
venerable bows looked bearded.  Her masts--cut somewhere on the coast of Japan,
very large; but considering that I was used to the sea, could steer a ship,
very poor way indeed.  But I am one of those that never take on about princely
very slip-shod, I assure ye.  Supper concluded, we received a lamp, and
voluntary and confiding breast, and thereby chiefly, but with some help from
voyages are so prolonged, and the shore intervals at home so exceedingly
wall the wooden shaft of Queequeg's harpoon, which the landlady the evening
want?  groaned Bildad, glancing up from the book in which he had again been
wantest to know what whaling is, as thou tellest ye do, I can put ye in a way
was a Quaker, the island having been originally settled by that sect; and to
was all eagerness to vanish from before the awakened wrath of Peleg.  But to
was to be found.  And what dost thou want of Captain Ahab?  It's all right
water; considerable horizon though, and there's a squall coming up, I
way that you do yours in approved state stocks bringing in good interest.
well listen.  Mark ye, be forewarned; Ahab's above the common; Ahab's been
well to have a look at him before irrevocably committing yourself into his
well-earned income.  Now Bildad, I am sorry to say, had the reputation of
were three ships up for three-years' voyages --The Devil-Dam the Tit-bit,
what seemed like mystery in him, so imperfectly as he was known to me then.
when I came back; what did ye see?  Not much, I replied -- nothing but
where her original ones were lost overboard in a gale --her masts stood
while I am putting up at this grim sign of the Thunder Cloud.  Upon the whole,
whistled at last -- the squall's gone off to leeward, I think.  Bildad, thou
wicked name.  Besides, my boy, he has a wife --not three voyages wedded --a
will be completely fitted out, and receive all her crew on board, ere the
will then see, I say, that the seven hundred and seventy-seventh part of a
with clam-shells.  Mrs. Hussey wore a polished necklace of codfish vertebra;
with that.  Now when I looked about the quarter-deck, for some one having
without lifting his eyes; and then went on mumbling -- for where your
won't have it.  But let us understand each other.  I have given thee a hint
ye feel considerable proud of having served in those marchant ships.  But
ye've been to sea before now; sure of that?  Sir, said I, I thought I
yet I also felt a strange awe of him; but that sort of awe, which I cannot at
yet had he in his straight-bodied coat, spilled tuns upon tuns of leviathan
yet he don't look so.  In fact, he ain't sick; but no, he isn't well either.
you stand?  I was a little staggered, but go a-whaling I must, and I would;
young man, we may be taking the bread from those widows and those orphans.
