

























     Aft here, ye sons of bachelors, he cried, as the sailors lingered at the
     As Queequeg and I are now fairly embarked
     At length, towards noon, upon the
     Aye, aye, said Stubb, the second mate, Starbuck, there, is as careful a
     God!  who didst not refuse to the swart convict, Bunyan, the pale, poetic
     In behalf of the dignity of whaling, I
     Man the capstan!  Blood and thunder! --jump! --was the next command, and the
     Some chapters back, one Bulkington was
     Stubb was the second mate.  He
     The chief mate of the Pequod was
     Whaling not respectable?  Whaling is imperial!  By old English statutory
     When close to the whale, in the very death-lock of the fight, he handled his
     When on that shivering winter's night, the Pequod thrust her vindictive bows
     a mature man who uses hair-oil, unless medicinally, that man has probably got
     and
     blood in their veins?  They have something better than royal blood there.
     dollars; and every year importing into our harbors a well reaped harvest of 00847,000,000 dollars.  How comes all this, if there be not something puissant in
     famous author, and whaling no famous chronicler?  Who wrote the first
     he breathed at last, who be ye smokers?  Shipped men, answered I, when
     his totality.  But the only thing to be considered here, is this --what kind
     pay to her whalemen in bounties upwards of 1,000,000
     pounds?  And lastly, how comes it that we whalemen of America now outnumber
     them tragic graces; if even the most mournful, perchance the most abased,
     they came with an indifferent air; and while engaged in the most imminent
     to be regarded among landsmen as a rather unpoetical and disreputable
--now a word below, and now a word with Starbuck, the chief mate.  But, at
--say your last.  Luck to ye, Starbuck --luck to ye, Mr. Stubb --luck to ye,
--this day darting the barbed iron from one side of the world to the other.
.. < chapter xxii 12  MERRY CHRISTMAS >
.. < chapter xxiii 28  THE LEE SHORE >
.. < chapter xxiv 2  THE ADVOCATE >
.. < chapter xxv 27  POSTSCRIPT >
.. < chapter xxvi 26  KNIGHTS AND SQUIRES >
.. < chapter xxvii 2  KNIGHTS AND SQUIRES >
.. <p 100 >
.. <p 100 >
.. <p 101 >
.. <p 102 >
.. <p 103 >
.. <p 104 >
.. <p 104 >
.. <p 105 >
.. <p 106 >
.. <p 107 >
.. <p 108 >
.. <p 109 >
.. <p 109n. >
.. <p 110 >
.. <p 110 >
.. <p 110n. >
.. <p 111 >
.. <p 111 >
.. <p 112 >
.. <p 113 >
.. <p 114 >
.. <p 115 >
.. <p 116 >
And as for the matter of the alleged uncleanliness of our business, ye shall
Australian settlement, the emigrants were several times saved
Bildad --come, old shipmate, we must go.  Back the main-yard there!  Boat ahoy!
Bildad lingered long; paced the deck with anxious strides" ran down into the
Bildad, who, with Peleg, be it known, in addition to his other offices, was
Canaan stood, While Jordan rolled between.  Never did those sweet words sound
Cape Horn, no commerce but colonial, scarcely any intercourse but colonial,
Cape-Cod-man.  A happy-go-lucky; neither craven nor valiant; taking perils as
Captain Ahab is all ready --just spoke to him --nothing more to be got from
Captain Ahab remained invisibly enshrined within his cabin.
Captain Ahab, no sign of him was yet to be seen; Only, they said he was in the
Captain Bildad.  For loath to depart, yet; very loath to leave, for good, a
Christmas; and as the short northern day merged into night, we found
Don't stave the boats needlessly, ye harpooneers; good white cedar plank is
Glimpses do ye seem to see of that mortally intolerable truth; that all deep,
Good again; but then all confess that somehow whaling is not respectable.
Good-bye, good-bye!  Don't keep that cheese too long down in the hold, Mr.
Great, who, with his own royal pen, took down the words from Other, the
He breathed with a sort of muffledness; then seemed troubled in the nose;
He would hum over his old rigadig tunes while flank and flank with the most
I thought.  If ye touch at the islands, Mr. Flask, beware of fornication.
I was going to ask him some further questions concerning Ahab, when we heard a
I, Captain Peleg must have been drinking something to-day.  At last the anchor
Jackson from the pebbles; who didst hurl him upon a war-horse; who didst
Krusenstern.  For in their succorless emptyhandedness, they, in the
Mary Folger, one of the old settlers of Nantucket, and the ancestress to a
Meantime, overseeing the other part of the ship, Captain Peleg
Mr. Flask --good-bye, and good luck to ye all --and this day three years I'll
Norwegian whale-hunter of those times!  And who pronounced our glowing eulogy
Oh, that's only nominal!  The whale himself has never figured in any grand
See subsequent chapters for something more on this head.
See subsequent chapters for something more on this head.
Spain, and the establishment of the eternal democracy in those parts.  That
Stand by to come close alongside, now!  Careful, careful! --come, Bildad, boy
Starbuck, a native of Nantucket, and a Quaker by descent.  He was a long,
Starbuck; it'll spoil.  Be careful with the butter --twenty cents the pound it
The Captain came aboard last night.  What Captain? --Ahab?  Who but him
The grandmother of Benjamin Franklin was Mary Morrel" afterwards, by marriage,
Whale Fishery) to his visiting card, such a procedure would be deemed
Wherefore he had no fancy for lowering for whales after sun-down; nor for
Your Krusensterns; but I say that scores of anonymous Captains have sailed
a Dutchman, all other ships long shunned those shores as pestiferously
a battery, would quickly recoil at the apparition of the sperm whale's vast
a quoggy spot in him somewhere.  As a general rule, he can't amount to much in
abounding dignity which has no robed investiture.  Thou shalt see it shining
absolute!  The centre and circumference of all democracy!  His omnipresence,
account of our Leviathan?  Who but mighty Job!  And who composed the first
account that man more honorable than that great captain of antiquity who
ale.  He must have been born in some time of general drought and famine, or
alive.  He seemed to do most of the talking and commanding, and not Bildad.
all invited guests.  He was as particular about the comfortable arrangement of
all that's kind to our mortalities.  But in that gale, the port, the land, is
all the rest of the banded whalemen in the world; sail a navy of upwards of
alone resides the highest truth, shoreless, indefinite as God --so, better is
among the cleanliest things of this tidy earth.  But even granting the charge
among them all, shall at times lift himself to the exalted mounts; if I shall
an anchor in their waters.  The uncounted isles of all Polynesia confess the
an enraged and mighty man.  But were the coming narrative to reveal, in any
an offing, that the two pilots were needed no longer.  The stout sail-boat
and at intervals singing what seemed a dismal stave of psalmody, to cheer the
and desiring him to make a settee of himself under a spreading tree, perhaps
and european men-of-war now peacefully ride in once savage harbors, let them
and least known parts of the earth.  She has explored seas and archipelagoes
and steering her well out to sea.  Indeed, as that was not at all his proper
and there may be a caster of state.  How they use the salt, precisely --who
and unhorse you with a split helmet every time.  The whale has no famous
and with that, Peleg hurried him over the side, and both dropt into the
any other whale hunter.  Starbuck was no crusader after perils; in him
are, that is true.  But butchers, also, and butchers of the bloodiest badge
arid summers had he seen; those summers had dried up all his physical
at hand upon all mortally practical occasions.  Besides, he thought, perhaps,
at the apparition of Captain Peleg in the act of withdrawing his leg from my
at times affected, and in some cases seemed well nigh to overbalance all the
august dignity I treat of, is not the dignity of kings and robes, but that
author, and whaling no famous chronicler, you will say.  The whale no
away with thee, friend Starbuck, and do our bidding.  How now!  Here upon the
barbarous; but the whale-ship touched there.  The whale-ship is the true
battled with virgin wonders and terrors that Cooke with all his marines and
be seen actively engaged in looking over the bows for the approaching anchor,
been so killed Starbuck well knew.  What doom was his own father's?  Where, in
bestirred themselves; the mates were actively engaged; and several of the
beyond the swelling flood, Stand dressed in living green.  So to the Jews old
bless ye, and have ye in His holy keeping, men, murmured old Bildad, almost
board the Pequod, particularly in getting under weigh; and Charity, his
boasted of taking as many walled towns.  And, as for me, if, by any
boat.  Ship and boat diverged; the cold, damp night breeze blew between; a
bodily blight.  It was merely the condensation of the man.  He was by no
both ran, in starting on the voyage with such a devil for a pilot.  I was
break thy backbone!  why don't ye spring, i say, all of ye--spring!  Quohog!
brother-in-law, and a spare bible for the steward -- after all this, the two
burn, as before so many shrines, to our glory!  But look at this matter in
business of whaling.  One way and another, it has begotten events so
business, but the pilot's; and as he was not yet completely recovered --so
cabin to speak another farewell word there; again came on deck, and looked
cabin.  But then, the idea was,
captains, Peleg and Bildad, issued from the cabin, and turning to the chief
castaways, I shall hereafter ascribe high qualities, though dark; weave round
celebrate as they will the heroes of Exploring Expeditions, your Cookes,
chapters to, these men accounted unworthy of being set down in the ship's
character seem gone; bleeds with keenest anguish at the undraped spectacle
chief mate, that; good man, and a pious; but all alive now, I must turn
coast, were the most conspicuous object in the cymballed procession.  Grant
comforting myself, however, with the thought that in pious Bildad might be
common log.  Ah, the world!  Oh, the world!  Until the whale fishery rounded
comparable to the unspeakable carrion of those battle-fields from which so
completely stifle her upbraidings against the permitting stars.  But this
comprehensible terrors of man compared with the interlinked terrors and
concerned in, for he never piloted any other craft --Bildad, I say, might now
conflict with seas, or winds, or whales, or any of the ordinary irrational
connected with it, then am I ready to shiver fifty lances with you there,
conspire to cast her on the treacherous, slavish shore?  But as in landlessness
convenient on an excursion; much better than those garden-chairs which are
convertible into walking-sticks; upon occasion, a chief calling his attendant,
coronation, even as a head of salad.  Can it be, though, that they anoint it
cosmopolite philosopher cannot, for his life, point out one single peaceful
could, nevertheless, still flourish, must indeed have been extreme.  But it
courage up.  And brave as he might be, it was that sort of bravery chiefly,
courage was not a sentiment; but a thing simply useful to him, and always
crawl to land!  Terrors of the terrible!  is all this agony so vain?  Take
creature, that over any ignominious blemish in him all his fellows should run
crew sprang for the handspikes.  Now, in getting under weigh, the station
crisis of the chase, toiling away, calm and collected as a journeyman joiner
custom of fattening some of the lower orders for ottomans; and to furnish a
dangerous voyage, could so unrestingly push off again for still another
death into an easy chair.  What he thought of death itself, there is no
deemed almost superfluous to establish the fact, that among people at large,
do well in all climates.  Looking into his eyes, you seemed to see there the
does she sail?  Aye, aye, ye are going in her, be ye?  She sails to-day.
doubt, like a good sailor, he took it to be a sort of call of the watch to
earnest man, and though born on an icy coast, seemed well adapted to endure
earnest thinking is but the intrepid effort of the soul to keep the open
easy!  He was going on with some wild reminiscences about his tomahawk-pipe,
either.  Mr Starbuck, mind that cooper don't waste the spare staves.  Oh!  the
elephant, vast curving icicles depended from the bows.  Lank Bildad, as pilot,
emulation of the naval officers he should append the initials S. W.  F. (Sperm
engaged for the year.  Good-humored, easy, and careless, he presided over his
engaged therein, we are surrounded by all manner of defilements.  Butchers we
enlightened world by the whaleman.  After its first blunder-born discovery by
enough; especially as in the merchant service many captains never show
estimation of the encountered peril, but that an utterly fearless man is a
eventuated the liberation of Peru, Chili, and Bolivia from the yoke of Old
ever deserve any real repute in that small but high hushed world which I might
exasperated monster.  Long usage had, for this Stubb, converted the jaws of
except in port; and on board the Pequod, for thirty years, the order to
experiences and remembrances as he had; it was not in nature that these
facts, an advocate who should wholly suppress a not unreasonable
far more dangerous comrade than a coward.
far-away domestic memories of his young Cape wife and child, tend to bend him
far-off unseen Eastern Continents; looked towards the land, looked aloft;
fearfulness upon the man, who in mid-winter just landed from a four years'
fellow who anoints his hair, and palpably smells of that anointing.  In truth,
fellows, and lay them round in the piers and alcoves.  Besides, it was very
fights 'gainst the very winds that fain would blow her homeward; seeks all
final dismissal of the ship's riggers, and after the Pequod had been hauled
fire salutes to the honor and glory of the whale-ship, which originally showed
fit; and closely wrapped up in it, and embalmed with inner health and
fleets?  Why did Louis XVI.  of France, at his own personal expense, fit out
fools, and murderers there may be; men may have mean and meagre faces; but
for all his philosophy, there was a tear twinkling in his eye, when the
for almost all the tapers, lamps, and candles that burn round the globe,
for long ages to come, and to endure always, as now; for be it Polar snow or
for the missionary and the merchant, and in many cases carried the primitive
found some salvation, spite of his seven hundred and seventy-seventh lay;
freely, while imperturbable Bildad kept leading off with his psalmody.  Thinks
friends, before they quit the ship for good with the pilot.  But there was
from starvation by the benevolent biscuit of the whale-ship luckily dropping
further to those latent influences which, in some honest-hearted men,
generally occupied by the pilot is the forward part of the ship.  And here
gifts.  Have an eye to the molasses tierce, Mr. Stubb; it was a little leaky,
glistened in the moonlight; and like the white ivory tusks of some huge
going it with a high hand on the quarter-deck, just as if they were to be
good-bye to a thing so every way brimful of every interest to him, --poor old
good-humor of his; that thing must have been his pipe.  For, like his nose,
great America on the other side of the sphere, Australia, was given to the
ground with their packs; what helped to bring about that almost impious
hands at the windlass, who roared forth some sort of a chorus about the girls
have a hot supper smoking for ye in old Nantucket.  Hurrah and away!  God
have been all Martial Commanders whom the world invariably delights to honor.
have been.  Why did the Dutch in DeWitt's time have admirals of their whaling
have the heart to write it; for it is a thing most sorrowful, nay shocking,
he ever did chance to cast his mind that way after a comfortable dinner, no
he not be blameworthy?  It is well known that at the coronation of kings and
headed the first watch, and ever and anon, as the old craft deep dived into
heart, take heart, O Bulkington!  Bear thee grimly, demigod!  Up from the spray
heathenish sharked waters, and by the beaches of unrecorded, javelin islands,
heavens attest.  Cetus is a constellation in the South!  No more!  Drive down
heavy-hearted cheers, and blindly plunged like fate into the lone Atlantic.
his face, as much as to say, Nevertheless, friend Peleg, I can stand it;
his hardy sobriety and fortitude, there were certain qualities in him which
his merits, were he presented to the company as a harpooneer, say; and if in
his part of the boat, as an old stage-driver is about the snugness of his box.
his short, black little pipe was one of the regular features of his face.  You
horrors of the world, yet cannot withstand those more terrific, because more
hot latitudes, his flesh being hard as twice-baked biscuit.  Transported to
house comfortably in that respect, you had only to buy up eight or ten lazy
howled, and the cordage rang, his steady notes were heard, -- Sweet fields
idea of peril so much enhances the popular conceit of the soldier's
ignorance.  Outward portents and inward presentiments were his.  And if at
immediate vicinity.  That was my first kick.  Is that the way they heave in
imposing way.  The whale never figured in any grand imposing way?  In
in Booble Alley, with hearty good will.  Nevertheless, not three days
in Parliament?  Who, but Edmund Burke!  True enough, but then whalemen
in ice, as in polished armor.  The long rows of teeth on the bulwarks
in my desk, then here I prospectively ascribe all the honor and the glory to
in question to be true; what disordered slippery decks of a whale-ship are
in some damp marshy place.  While narrating these things, every time Queequeg
in the arm that wields a pick or drives a spike; that democratic dignity
in the old South Sea Voyages, those things were but the lifetime commonplaces
in this business of whaling; and as this business of whaling has somehow come
in which some thousands of his hard earned dollars were invested; a ship, in
incline him to superstition; but to that sort of superstition, which in some
incoherently.  I hope ye'll have fine weather now, so that Captain Ahab may
indeed?
independence of her sea; while the wildest winds of heaven and earth
influence, which within the last sixty years has operated more potentially
injustice hereby done to us hunters of whales.  In the first place, it may be
instance, the complete abasement of poor Starbuck's fortitude, scarce might I
into the cold malicious waves, who should I see
is ever to become hospitable, it is the whale-ship alone to whom the credit
issues, that whaling may well be regarded as that Egyptian mother, who bore
it fared with him as with the storm-tossed ship, that miserably drives along
it to perish in that howling infinite, than be ingloriously dashed upon the
it, since you cite it; but, say what you will, there is no real dignity in
jacket, there was yet, it then seemed to me, many a pleasant haven in
joint-commanders at sea, as well as to all appearances in port.  And, as for
know a man that, in his lifetime, has taken three hundred and fifty whales.  I
knows?  Certain I am, however, that a king's head is solemnly oiled at his
land, though it but graze the keel, would make her shudder through and
lantern came too near.  And he, too, did not a little run from cabin to deck
last, he turned to his comrade, with a final sort of look about him, -- Captain
law, the whale is declared a royal fish.
lee, even if that were safety!  For worm-like, then, oh!  who would craven
liberal professions.  If a stranger were introduced into any miscellaneous
living, and not to be killed by them for theirs; and that hundreds of men had
long line of Folgers and harpooneers --all kith and kin to noble Benjamin
looked right and left; looked everywhere and nowhere; and at last,
made a pilot in order to save the Nantucket pilot-fee to all the ships he was
main-mast.  Mr. Starbuck, drive 'em aft.  Strike the tent there! --was the
man as you'll find anywhere in this fishery.  But we shall ere long see what
man, in the ideal, is so noble and so sparkling, such a grand and glowing
mantle of humanity over all my kind!  Bear me out in it, thou great democratic
many soldiers return to drink in all ladies' plaudits?  And if the
marchings, ever cullest Thy selectest champions from the kingly commons; bear
mate, Peleg said: Now, Mr. Starbuck, are you sure everything is right?
me out in it, O God!
me out in it, thou just spirit of equality, which hast spread one royal
means ill-looking; quite the contrary.  His pure tight skin was an excellent
mechanically coiling a rope upon its pin, convulsively grasped stout Peleg by
memories like these in him, and, moreover, given to a certain
men; but don't miss a fair chance either, that's rejecting Heaven's good
metropolitan society, it would but slightly advance the general opinion of
might be ruminated here, concerning the essential dignity of this regal
missionaries to their first destinations.  If that double-bolted land, Japan,
more starting to encounter all the terrors of the pitiless jaw; loath to say
more sweetly to me than then.  They were full of hope and fruition.  Spite of
mother of that now mighty colony.  Moreover, in the infancy of the first
muskets would not willingly have dared.  All that is made such a flourish of
my death, my executors, or more properly my creditors, find any precious MSS.
narrative of a whaling-voyage?  Who, but no less a prince than Alfred the
need of profane words, however great the hurry, Peleg, said Bildad, but
next order.  As I hinted before, this whalebone marquee was never pitched
noise on deck.  Halloa!  Starbuck's astir, said the rigger.  He's a lively
nose as without his pipe.
not be unreasonably ambitious of; if hereafter I shall do anything that,
not much chance to think over the matter, for Captain Peleg was now all
of a valor-ruined man.  Nor can piety itself, at such a shameful sight,
of families from our own island of Nantucket?  Why did Britain between the
of oil is used at coronations?  Certainly it cannot be olive oil, nor macassar
of our heroic Nantucketers.  Often, adventures which Vancouver dedicates three
of the ship, like her beef and her bread, and not to be foolishly wasted.
of thy ocean-perishing --straight up, leaps thy apotheosis!
offspring themselves pregnant from her womb.  It would be a hopeless, endless
oil, nor castor oil, nor bear's oil, nor train oil, nor cod-liver oil.  What
on my handspike, and told Queequeg to do the same, thinking of the perils we
one of the licensed pilots of the port --he being suspected to have got himself
one of the mighty triumphs given to a Roman general upon his entering the
organizations seems rather to spring, somehow, from intelligence than from
other lights; weigh it in all sorts of scales; see what we whalemen are, and
our divine equality!  If, then, to meanest mariners, and renegades and
ourselves almost broad upon the wintry ocean, whose freezing spray cased us
ourselves, so far within us, that it remains intact though all the outer
out from the wharf, and after the ever-thoughtful Charity had come off in a
out of Nantucket, that were as great, and greater than your Cooke and your
out when he obeyed the order, and not sooner.  What, perhaps, with other
pearl; Thou who didst clothe with doubly hammered leaves of finest gold, the
peril; her only friend her bitterest foe!  Know ye, now, Bulkington?
perilous vicissitudes of the fishery.  I will have no man in my boat, said
persisting in fighting a fish that too much persisted in fighting him.  For,
plenty of them in the tropic voyage ye go.  Be careful in the hunt, ye mates.
possibility, there be any as yet undiscovered prime thing in me; if I shall
pre-eminently presuming and ridiculous.  Doubtless one leading reason why the
previous, Bildad had told them that no profane songs would be allowed on
process, because in common life we esteem but meanly and contemptibly a
profession; let me assure ye that many a veteran who has freely marched up to
provinces on the Pacific coast.  It was the whaleman who first broke through
pursuit; therefore, I am all anxiety to convince ye, ye landsmen, of the
queens, even modern ones, a certain curious process of seasoning them for
rainbow over his disastrous set of sun; then against all mortal critics bear
raised full three per cent.  within the year.  Don't forget your prayers,
received the tomahawk from me, he flourished the hatchet-side of it over the
remain over the cabin table, having a farewell merrymaking with their shore
remarkable in themselves, and so continuously momentous in their sequential
rest.  Uncommonly conscientious for a seaman, and endued with a deep natural
restrain the gush of dare-devil daring, so often evinced by others in the more
reverence, the wild watery loneliness of his life did therefore strongly
ripped and swore astern in the most frightful manner.  I almost thought he
sail-needles are in the green locker!  Don't whale it too much a' Lord's days,
same truth, and do commercial homage to the whale-ship, that cleared the way
screaming gull flew overhead; the two hulls wildly rolled; we gave three
seven hundred vessels; manned by eighteen thousand men; yearly consuming 00824,000,000 of dollars; the ships worth, at the time of sailing, 20,000,000
ship bound on so long and perilous a voyage --beyond both stormy Capes; a ship
shore people were busy in bringing various last things on board.  Meanwhile
shore, eh?  Well, call all hands, then.  Muster 'em aft here --blast 'em!  No
sister, had placed a small choice copy of Watts in each seaman's berth.
six-inch chapter is the stoneless grave of Bulkington.  Let me only say that
sleeper's head.  What's that for, Queequeg?  Perry easy, kill-e; oh!  perry
so saying, he moved along the windlass, here and there using his leg very
soon be initiated into certain facts hitherto pretty generally unknown, and
soon be moving among ye --a pleasant sun is all he needs, and ye'll have
soul, when we were directly attracted to the sleeping rigger.  The strong
space permitted, it might be distinctly shown how from those whalemen at last
spiritual terrors, which sometimes menace you from the concentrating brow of
spoken of, a tall, new-landed mariner, encountered in New Bedford at the inn.
spring, thou chap with the red whiskers; spring there, Scotchcap; spring,
standing at her helm but Bulkington!  I looked with sympathetic awe and
starbuck, who is not afraid of a whale.  by this, he seemed to mean, not only
state, the sweetest of all oils?  Think of that, ye loyal Britons!  we
still more from the original ruggedness of his nature, and open him still
stock-companies and nations; knaves,
store; and meads and glades so eternally vernal, that the grass shot up by
strength, like a revivified Egyptian, this Starbuck seemed prepared to endure
strike the tent was well known to be the next thing to heaving up the anchor.
stumped and paupered arm of old Cervantes; Thou who didst pick up Andrew
suitable circumstances, would break out from its confinement, and burn all his
sunrise.  Soon the crew came on board in twos and threes; the riggers
superfluousness.  But this, his thinness, so to speak, seemed no more the
superstitiousness, as has been said; the courage of this Starbuck which
surmise, which might tell eloquently upon his cause --such an advocate, would
tail, fanning into eddies the air over his head.  For what are the
task to catalogue all these things.  Let a handful suffice.  For many
telling pantomime of action, and not a tame chapter of sounds.  Yet, for all
telling.  Whether he ever thought of it at all, might be a question; but, if
tempestuous term.  The land seemed scorching to his feet.  Wonderfullest
that had accompanied us began ranging alongside.  It was curious and not
that his presence was by no means necessary in getting the ship under weigh,
that in this business of whaling, courage was one of the great staple outfits
that ship's direst jeopardy; she must fly all hospitality; one touch of
that the most reliable and useful courage was that which arises from the fair
that word careful precisely means when used by a man like Stubb, or almost
the Indies, his live blood would not spoil like bottled
the bottomless deeps, could he find the torn limbs of his brother?  With
the business of whaling is not accounted on a level with what are called the
the green seas, and sent the shivering frost all over her, and the winds
the hand, and holding up a lantern, for a moment stood gazing heroically in
the jealous policy of the Spanish crown, touching those colonies; and, if
the lashed sea's landlessness again; for refuge's sake forlornly rushing into
the leeward land.  The port would fain give succor; the port is pitiful; in
the marchant service?  he roared.  Spring, thou sheep-head; spring, and
the port is safety, comfort, hearthstone, supper, warm blankets, friends,
the spring, untrodden, unwilted, remains at midsummer.  At last we gained such
their functions is gone through.  There is a saltcellar of state, so called,
them the way, and first interpreted between them and the savages.  They may
themselves are poor devils; they have no good blood in their veins.  No good
themselves on deck for a considerable time after heaving up the anchor, but
then can it possibly be, but sperm oil in its unmanufactured, unpolluted
then revolved over once or twice; then sat up and rubbed his eyes.  Holloa!
they said --therefore, Captain Ahab stayed below.  And all this seemed natural
things are ever the unmentionable; deep memories yield no epitaphs; this
things should fail in latently engendering an element in him, which, under
things, made Stubb such an easygoing, unfearing man, so cheerily trudging off
this frigid
this, you still declare that whaling has no aesthetically noble associations
thou green pants.  Spring, I say, all of ye, and spring your eyes out!  And
thought Starbuck, I am here in this critical ocean to kill whales for my
through life.  A staid, steadfast man, whose life for the most part was a
through.  With all her might she crowds all sail off shore; in so doing,
thunder him higher than a throne!  Thou who, in all Thy mighty, earthly
times these things bent the welded iron of his soul, much more did his
to expose the fall of valor in the soul.  Men may seem detestable as joint
to throw their costliest robes.  That immaculate manliness we feel within
to windward; looked towards the wide and endless waters, only bounded by the
to.  And so saying he went on deck, and we followed.  It was now clear
token of wasting anxieties and cares, than it seemed the indication of any
torrid sun, like a patent chronometer, his interior vitality was warranted to
touch that workman's arm with some ethereal light; if I shall spread a
tumble aloft, and bestir themselves there, about something which he would find
unpitying lance coolly and off-handedly, as a whistling tinker his hammer.
unpleasing, how Peleg and Bildad were affected at this juncture, especially
unwittingly pay us the profoundest homage; yea, an all-abounding adoration!
upon one of those fast days for which his state is famous.  Only some thirty
upon the whole broad world, taken in one aggregate, than the high and mighty
upon the whole, a man might rather have done than to have left undone; if, at
vapor now completely filling the contracted hole, it began to tell upon him.
very point of starting for the voyage, Captain Peleg and Captain Bildad were
visible in some intrepid men, which, while generally abiding firm in the
vocation amounts to a butchering sort of business; and that when actively
was a native of Cape Cod; and hence, according to local usage, was called a
was carried on between Europe and the long line of the opulent Spanish
was not in reasonable nature that a man so organized, and with such terrible
was up, the sails were set, and off we glided.  It was a short, cold
was, and mind ye, if-- Come, come, Captain Bildad; stop palavering, --away!
whale-boat as if the most deadly encounter were but a dinner, and his crew
whaleboat, with her last gift --a night-cap for Stubb, the second mate, her
whalemen supply your kings and queens with coronation stuff!
whaling ships from Dunkirk, and politely invite to that town some score or two
whaling.  No dignity in whaling?  The dignity of our calling the very
whaling; for a whale-ship was my Yale College and my Harvard.
whaling?  But this is not the half; look again.  I freely assert, that the
when I felt a sudden sharp poke in my rear, and turning round, was horrified
which an old shipmate sailed as captain; a man almost as old as he, once
which had no chart, where no Cook or Vancouver had ever sailed.  If American
which, it seemed, had in its two uses both brained his foes and soothed his
which, on all hands, radiates without end from God; Himself!  The great God
which, upon the whole, will triumphantly plant the sperm whale-ship at least
will be due; for already she is on the threshold.  But if, in the face of all
winter night in the boisterous Atlantic, spite of my wet feet and wetter
with a view of making its interior run well, as they anoint machinery?  Much
with the burden of life in a world full of grave peddlers, all bowed to the
wonders of God!  But, though the world scouts at us whale hunters, yet does it
world declines honoring us whalemen, is this: they think that, at best, our
world's capital, the bones of a whale, brought all the way from the Syrian
would almost as soon have expected him to turn out of his bunk without his
would fain advance naught but substantiated facts.  But after embattling his
would sink the ship before the anchor could be got up; involuntarily I paused
years
years past the whale-ship has been the pioneer in ferreting out the remotest
yes, I can.  As for Peleg himself, he took it more like a philosopher; but
yet lingering images of those thousand-fold perils he had calmly confronted
your hat in presence of the Czar, and take it off to Queequeg!  No more!  I
