












     Bashaw assails him, and chases him away!  High times, indeed, if
     Gallow the very wanderers of the dark And make them keep their caves.  To
     The long and narrow peninsula of
     The previous chapter
     The same secludedness and isolation to which the schoolmaster whale betakes
     With a fair, fresh wind, the Pequod was now drawing nigh to these straits;
     circle, where abundance of room and some convenient retreats were afforded
     originally invented by the Nantucket Indians, called druggs.  Two thick
     power of speed to rid himself of the iron leech that had fastened to him; as
     then a love of ease and virtue supplants the love for maidens; our Ottoman
     till it almost seemed that some spell had suddenly domesticated them.
     yet, even at the present day, we occasionally hear of English and American
--scrape away!  The boat was now all but jammed between two vast black bulks,
--though as yet a mile in their rear, --than they rallied again, and forming in
.. < chapter lxxxvii 6  THE GRAND ARMADA >
.. < chapter lxxxviii 28  SCHOOLS AND SCHOOLMASTERS >
.. <p 376n. >
.. <p 377 >
.. <p 378 >
.. <p 379 >
.. <p 380 >
.. <p 381 >
.. <p 382 >
.. <p 382n. >
.. <p 383 >
.. <p 384 >
.. <p 385 >
.. <p 386 >
.. <p 387 >
.. <p 387n. >
.. <p 388 >
.. <p 389 >
.. <p 389 >
.. <p 390 >
.. <p 391 >
.. <p 392 >
Ahab purposing to pass through them into the Javan sea, and thence, cruising
Ahab to-and-fro paced the deck; in his forward turn beholding the monsters he
Arnold, at the battle of Saratoga, carrying dismay wherever he went.  But
As if too long lurking behind the headlands, till the Pequod should fairly
Australia, and dividing the long unbroken Indian ocean from the thickly
Baltic, and the Propontis.  Unlike the Danes, these Orientals do not demand the
But far beneath this wondrous world upon the surface, another and still
But upon flinging the third, in the act of tossing overboard the clumsy
English words --the etymological Howards and Percys --are now democratised, nay,
Equator awhile, they start for the Oriental waters in anticipation of the
It is an old Saxon word.  It occurs once in Shakespeare: -- The wrathful skies
Japan, in time for the great whaling season there.  By these means, the
Java Head; they not a little correspond to the central gateway opening into
Malacca, extending south-eastward from the territories of Birmah, forms the
New-England rocks with the noble brawn of the old English emigrants in the
One of these little infants, that from certain queer tokens seemed hardly a
Pequod's deck, then, as she would rise on a high hill of the sea, this host
Queequeg patted their foreheads; Starbuck scratched their backs with his
Should any unwarrantably pert young Leviathan coming that way, presume to
Sperm Whale into such immense caravans, may be imputed the circumstance that
Surely, he will stop for water.  Nay.  For a long time, now, the circus-running
The first and second were successfully darted, and we saw the whales
The result of this lowering was somewhat illustrative of that sagacious saying
The sperm whale, as with all other species of the Leviathan, but unlike
They are comparatively delicate, indeed; I dare say, not to exceed half a
Though all comparison in the way of general bulk between the whale and the
Though such a movement on the part of the whale struck under such
To gally, or gallow, is to frighten excessively --to confound with fright.
Turks; for these Grand Turks are too lavish of their strength, and hence
When serenely advancing on one of these journeys, if any strange suspicious
Witness, too, all human beings, how when herded together in the sheepfold of
You meet them on the Line in time for the full flower of the Equatorial
a season when he might most reasonably be presumed to be haunting it.  But how
a theatre's pit, they will, at the slightest alarm of fire, rush
accidents of the fishery, this whale had become entangled in the harpoon-line
accompanied by all the solaces and endearments of the harem.  The contrast
afterwards killed at your leisure.  Hence it is, that at times like these the
agonizing as was the wound of this whale, and an appalling spectacle enough,
ahab quickly revolved in his pivot-hole, crying, aloft there, and rig whips
all alone among the meridians and parallels saying his prayers, and warning
all herding creatures.  Though banding together in tens of thousands, the
all over the world; every baby an exotic.  In good time, nevertheless, as the
all the time, Starbuck stood up in the bows, lance in hand, pricking out of
all these conceits had passed through his brain, Ahab's brow was left gaunt
almost entirely of females, and those mustering none but young vigorous
almost seem as if numerous nations of them had sworn solemn league and
always of the largest leviathanic proportions, the ladies, even at full
among gallied whales that this drugg is used.  For then, more whales are close
ancient one.  Like venerable moss-bearded Daniel Boone, he will have no one
and after several hours' pulling were almost disposed to renounce the chase,
and as human infants while suckling will calmly and fixedly gaze away from the
and buckets to wet the sails; --Malays, sir, and after us!
and kentledge.  She carries years' water in her.  Clear old prime Nantucket
and like King Porus' elephants in the Indian battle with Alexander, they
and ribbed, like the black sand beach after some stormy tide has been gnawing
and silks, and jewels, and gold, and ivory, with which the thousand islands of
and swimming on, in one solid, but still crescentic centre.  Crowding all sail
and those that by their enormous girth seemed shortly to become mothers.  The
and which, when additional game is at hand, are inserted upright into the
and with delighted nostrils the fresh cinnamon was snuffed in the air, yet
any amazement at the strangely gallied whales before us, for there is no folly
any way; yet the peculiar horror with which he seemed to inspire the rest of
appearance of a baby's ears newly arrived from foreign parts.  Line!  line!
ardor of youth declines; as years and dumps increase; as reflection lends
as it seemed, had broken away from the boat, carrying along with him half of
as many Sperm Whales had been captured off the western coast of Java, in the
as must have been seen, even at the present day, small detached bands are
as token of prior possession, should the boats of any other ship draw near.
as, after deep sounding, he floats up again, and shows the slackened curling
astern, and likewise to secure one which Flask had killed and waifed.  The
atheistical devils were infernally cheering him on with their curses; --when
awhile, still in tantalizing vicinity to young Lothario, like pious Solomon
backs.  Owing to the density of the crowd of reposing whales, more
bands are known as schools.  They generally are of two sorts; those composed
be in sight, the fishermen will seldom give chase to one of these Grand
be seen.  But I cannot completely make out his back parts; and hint what he
becharmed panic which it was impossible not to marvel at.  Like household dogs
before the wind, which for centuries past, by night and by day, have passed
being looped, it can in a moment be fastened to a harpoon.  It is chiefly
between the islands of Sumatra and Java, freighted with the costliest cargoes
between this Ottoman and his concubines is striking; because, while he is
between two whales into the innermost heart of the shoal, as if from some
blending atmosphere of bluish haze, showed like the thousand cheerful chimneys
boats.  But no sooner did the herd, by some presumed wonderful instinct of
both bows, at the distance of some two or three miles, and forming a great
bottom as the seat slid from under him.  On both sides the sea came in at the
bound to China from the west, emerge into the China seas.  Those narrow straits
branches, like the cleft drooping boughs of a willow, the single
breast, as if leading two different lives at the time; and while yet drawing
broad waters beyond; then, the harpooneers seemed more to grieve that the
broken teeth, scolloped fins; and in some instances, wrenched and dislocated
but not old; who, upon any alarm, evinces his gallantry by falling in the
by the subtle moisture thrown off by the whale in his more quiet moods.  Yes,
called by the fishermen a school, so is the lord and master of that school
calves had been purposely locked up in this innermost fold; and as if the
caravan, Moby Dick himself might not temporarily be swimming, like the
cases, the boats at once separated, each making for some one lone whale on
cause of its stopping; or, possibly, being so young, unsophisticated, and
cause the most terrible duels among their rival admirers; just so with the
central expanse the sea presented that smooth satin-like surface, called a
character, however admirably satirical, that after going to school himself,
chase, this natural line, with the maternal end loose, becomes entangled
chased, and in the after one the bloodthirsty pirates chasing him; some
churning through the water, violently flailing with his flexible tail, and
circles, and inclusive of the spaces between the various pods in any one of
circumnavigating Pequod would sweep almost all the known Sperm Whale cruising
circumstances, is in no wise unprecedented; and indeed is almost always more
close ranks and battalions, so that their spouts all looked like flashing
clumped together at last in one dense body, they then renewed their onward
common language, the word is now completely obsolete.  When the polite
commotion.  And still in the distracted distance we beheld the tumults of the
complicated channels and straits, knowing not at what moment it may be
consternations and affrights, did these inscrutable creatures at the centre
contingency provided for in suckling by two teats, curiously situated, one
contracting orbits the whales in the more central circles began to swim in
cool season there, and so evade the other excessive temperature of the year.
country-schoolmaster that famous Frenchman was in his younger days, and what
covenant for mutual assistance and protection.  To this aggregation of the
crescent in our van, we beheld another in our rear.  It seemed formed of
cried Queequeg, looking over the gunwale; him fast!  him fast! --Who line
cried Starbuck.  Look-e here, said Queequeg pointing down.  As when the
cross each other's grain at right angles; a line of considerable length is
crossed by random whales, all violently making for one centre.  This lucky
cruisers, the audacity of these corsairs has of late been somewhat repressed;
cruising; therefore, as the Pequod gained more and more upon Java Head, the
cutting-spade, to which is attached a rope for hauling it back again.  A
darting to and fro across the circles, was nothing to what at last met our
dashing among the revolving circles like the lone mounted desperado
day old, might have measured some fourteen feet in length, and some six feet
delirious throb.  As, blind and deaf, the whale plunged forward, as if by sheer
detached companies, as in former times, are now frequently met with in
detached white vapors, rising and falling something like the spouts of the
devoutly worshipping among his thousand concubines.  Granting other whales to
disbands the harem, and grown to an exemplary, sulky old soul, goes about
domineering fortresses which guard the entrances to the Mediterranean, the
down as one of the whaleman's self-derived savageries.  Much the same is it
dozen yards round the waist.  Nevertheless, it cannot be denied, that upon the
draw confidentially close to one of the ladies, with what prodigious fury the
dromedary that of a sudden rose bodily to the surface, and for an instant
dropping and dropping the pirates astern, the Pequod at last shot by the
drugg comes into requisition.  Our boat was furnished with three of them.
drugged-harpoons, were it not that as we advanced into the herd, our whale's
duty was now altogether dispensed with.  They chiefly attended to the shouting
each young Leviathan from his amorous errors.  Now, as the harem of whales is
each, swiftly going round and round, like multiplied spans of horses in a
easily have over-arched the middle ones, and so have gone round on their
edging away from that, whose colossal flukes were suspended overhead, while
elephant is preposterous, inasmuch as in that particular the elephant
end; and not only that, but a herd of remorseless wild pirates and inhuman
endeavor we at last shot into a temporary
enters upon the impotent, repentant, admonitory stage of life, forswears,
escape was at present afforded us.  We must watch for a breach in the living
esteem, the whales salute more hominum.
even in the best cruising grounds, you may now sometimes sail for weeks and
every day encountered; while you may, then, you must kill all you can.  And
every way innocent and inexperienced; however it may have been, these
evinced the activity of the other boats, still engaged in drugging the whales
excessive dismay.  But this occasional timidity is characteristic of almost
extensive herds, sometimes embracing so great a multitude, that it would
eyes.  It is sometimes the custom when fast to a whale more than commonly
fashionables, they are for ever on the move in leisurely search of variety.
feeding season, having just returned, perhaps, from spending the summer in
female whales are characteristically timid, the young males, or
few are captured having the deep scars of these encounters, --furrowed heads,
fiercely demanding tribute at the point of their spears.  Though by the
flight with augmented fleetness.  Further pursuit was useless; but the boats
floating body of a dead whale, both to mark its place on the sea, and also
flood had come; they would only answer -- Well, boys, here's the ark!  Now,
flukes close by.  Riotous and disordered as the universal commotion now was,
for another outlet.  After many similar hair-breadth escapes, we at last
for the convenience of ships and whales; conspicuous among which are the
for the supremacy like elks that warringly interweave their antlers.  Not a
forward-slanting spout of the Sperm Whale presents a thick curled bush of
freely and fearlessly indulge in all peaceful concernments; yea, serenely
fright.  First, the whales forming the margin of our lake began to crowd a
from afar; then the lake itself began faintly to heave and swell; the
from his head by the air-eddy made by the sudden tossing of a pair of broad
from the circumference of commotion, the direful disorders seemed waning.  So
gave account of an immense body or herd of Sperm Whales, and there was also
giving battle to Moby Dick, in the sea he was most known to frequent; and at
great river Hudson breaks up in Spring, the entire host of whales came
grounds of the world, previous to descending upon the Line in the Pacific;
growth, are not more than one third of the bulk of an average-sized male.
had so victoriously gained upon the Malays.  But still driving on in the wake
have entered the straits, these rascally Asiatics were now in hot pursuit, to
have sighted one grain of soil; her crew having seen no man but floating
he should then go abroad inculcating not what he learned there, but the folly
held, little doubt had they, that chased through these Straits of Sunda,
helter-skelter for the outlets, crowding, trampling, jamming, and
her solemn pauses; in short, as a general lassitude overtakes the sated Turk;
him!  Who struck?  Two whale; one big, one little!  What ails ye, man?
himself in his advancing years, is true of all aged Sperm Whales.  Almost
himself.  So Ahab.  Mark this, too, in the whaler.  While other hulls are
his own fan-like extremity.  All whaleboats carry certain curious contrivances,
hold.  She is ballasted with utilities; not altogether with unusable pig-lead
horseman on a height.  As marching armies approaching an unfriendly defile in
hovered, without finally disappearing.  Levelling his glass at this sight,
hunter's lance, the mother's pouring milk and blood rivallingly discolor
if you cannot kill them all at once, you must wing them, so that they can be
immediately surrounding the embayed axis of the herd, no possible chance of
in girth.  He was a little frisky; though as yet his body seemed scarce yet
in the Fishery, --the more whales the less fish.  Of all the drugged whales
in the Pacific, prefers to drink before the brackish fluid, but yesterday
in the deep.  And thus, though surrounded by circle upon circle of
inclusive of the occasional wide intervals between the revolving outer
inland there i still bathe me in eternal mildness of joy.  Meanwhile, as we
instant tore it out and carried it away, dropping the oarsman in the boat's
irregular circles, and aimlessly swimming hither and thither, by their short
irresolution, which, when the fishermen perceive it in the whale, they say he
is gallied.  The compact martial columns in which they had been hitherto
it soon resolved itself into what seemed a systematic movement; for having
it, without being able to drag the firm thing from its place.  But thoughts
it.
lake --evinced a wondrous fearlessness and confidence, or else a still
lake, as I have hinted, was to a considerable depth exceedingly transparent;
lance; but fearful of the consequences, for the time refrained from darting
landsman first hears it from the gaunt Nantucketer, he is apt to set it
leading wind, was herself in hot chase; how very kind of these tawny
leaving a narrow Dardanelles between their long lengths.  But by desperate
leviathans before us; when, of a sudden, the voice of Tashtego was heard,
like these troubled very few of the reckless crew; and when, after steadily
line buoyantly rising and spiralling towards the air; so now, Starbuck saw
lines of stacked bayonets, moved on with redoubled velocity.  Stripped to our
lion-maned buffaloes of the West have fled before a solitary horseman.
little, and tumble against each other, as if lifted by half spent billows
loaded down with alien stuff, to be transferred to foreign wharves; the
locked in and crushed.  But not a bit daunted, Queequeg steered us manfully;
long coils of the umbilical cord of Madame Leviathan, by which the young cub
look-outs were repeatedly hailed, and admonished to keep wide awake.  But
lord.  Gently he insinuates his vast bulk among them again and revels there
loudly cheering from the heads of their yet suspended boats.  If the wind only
loudly directing attention to something in our wake.  Corresponding to the
luxurious Ottoman, swimming about over the watery world, surroundingly
maiming his gigantic tail-tendon.  It is done by darting a short-handled
make up for their over-cautious delay.  But when the swift Pequod, with a fresh
males, or bulls, as they are familiarly designated.  In cavalier attendance
man; it might do well with strawberries.  When overflowing with mutual
maternal reticule; where, tail to head, and all ready for the final spring,
men.  Though many of the whales, as has been said, were in violent motion,
mentioned, offer a strong contrast to the harem schools.  For while those
mere riding-whips and rowels to her, that they were.  As with glass under arm,
might be discovered from our low boat that seemed playing up almost from the
might be named, my Lord Whale has no taste for the nursery, however much for
months together, without being greeted by a single spout; and then be
mortal nourishment, be still spiritually feasting upon some unearthly
most other fish, breeds indifferently at all seasons; after a gestation
most southerly point of all Asia.  In a continuous line from that peninsula
mountain torrent we had slid into a serene valley lake.  Here the storms in the
mountain.  Instantly Starbuck and Queequeg changed places; Starbuck taking
mouths.  but supposing the invader of domestic bliss to betake himself away at
multitude, must have contained at least two or three square miles.  At any
must have read the memoirs of Vidocq, and informed himself what sort of a
near him but Nature herself; and her he takes to wife in the wilderness of
near vicinity of the straits of Sunda; indeed, as most of the ground,
neared them; and the wind now dying away, word was passed to spring to the
nevertheless, there are not wanting some points of curious similitude; among
no means renounce their claim to more solid tribute.  Time out of mind the
northwards, over waters known to be frequented here and there by the Sperm
not a single jet was descried.  Almost renouncing all thought of falling in
notorious Lothario out
now sheering off from this monster directly across our route in advance; now
now?  in this zoned quest, does Ahab touch no land?  does his crew drink air?
obscured from us.  But at length we perceived that by one of the unimaginable
obsequious homage of lowered top-sails from the endless procession of ships
occasionally observed, embracing from twenty to fifty individuals each.  Such
oceans, the Sperm Whales, instead of almost invariably sailing in small
of Sumatra, have sallied out upon the vessels sailing through the straits,
of Sunda divide Sumatra from Java; and standing midway in that vast rampart
of domestic bliss; though do what the Bashaw will, he cannot keep the most
of his bed; for, alas!  all fish bed in common.  As ashore, the ladies often
of islands, buttressed by that bold green promontory, known to seamen as
of it.  His title, schoolmaster, would very naturally
of my being, do I myself still for ever centrally disport in mute calm; and
of not a few of their number.  And who could tell whether, in that congregated
of some dense metropolis, descried of a balmy autumnal morning, by some
of the beasts of the earth which is not infinitely outdone by the madness of
of the east.  But while they freely waive a ceremonial like this, they do by
of the fishery.  For as the swift monster drags you deeper and deeper into
of the watery defile in which the ship was then sailing, and bethought him
of the whales, at length they seemed abating their speed; gradually the ship
of vapory spouts, individually curling up into the air, and beheld through a
on each side of the anus; but the breasts themselves extend upwards from
on the frontier of the host; or possibly carrying on the war within the first
only one was captured.  The rest contrived to escape for the time, but only
only the maternal help.  For like certain other omnivorous roving lovers that
opening; then giving way rapidly, and at the same time earnestly watching
or less anticipated; yet does it present one of the more perilous vicissitudes
others, form a vast mole, or rampart, lengthwise connecting Asia with
our way whatever whales he could reach by short darts, for there was no time
outer concentric circles, and saw successive pods of whales, eight or ten in
paralysed as it were, helplessly floated like water-logged dismantled ships on
part of the business.  Out of the way, Commodore!  cried one, to a great
passage in their rear, and once more expand in comparative security upon the
philanthropists to assist in speeding her on to her own chosen pursuit, --
piratical proas of the Malays, lurking among the low shaded coves and islets
plain; even so did this vast fleet of whales now seem hurrying forward
plebeianised --so to speak --in the New World.
powerful and alert, to seek to hamstring him, as it were, by sundering or
rafted off in casks, from the Peruvian or Indian streams.  Hence it is, that,
rapidly and steadily swimming, were now broken up in one measureless rout;
rate --though indeed such a test at such a time might be deceptive --spoutings
rear and covering the flight of his ladies.  In truth, this gentleman is a
recovered from that irksome position it had so lately occupied in the
reminiscence; --even so did the young of these whales seem looking up towards
remorselessly dashing each other to death.  Best, therefore, withhold
repeated bloody chastisements they have received at the hands of European
retreated, but collectively remained in one place.  As is customary in those
revelled in dalliance and delight.  But even so, amid the tornadoed Atlantic
rim of the horizon.  I mention this circumstance, because, as if the cows and
ring; and so closely shoulder to shoulder, that a Titanic circus-rider might
roaring glens between the outermost whales, were heard but not felt.  In this
round you than you can possibly chase at one time.  But sperm whales are not
roundabout, was generally recognised by the fishermen as an excellent spot for
running away with us like light, steered straight for the heart of the herd.
salvation was cheaply purchased by the loss of Queequeg's hat, who, while
seamen like themselves.  So that did you carry them the news that another
secrets.  The schools composing none but young and vigorous males, previously
seem derived from the name bestowed upon the harem itself, but some have
seemed divulged to us in this enchanted pond.  We saw young Leviathan amours
seemed going mad with consternation.  In all directions expanding in vast
seemed still tethered to its dam.  Not seldom in the rapid vicissitudes of the
semicircle, embracing one half of the level horizon, a continuous chain of
ship mobbed by ice-isles in a tempest, and striving to steer through their
shirts and drawers, we sprang to the white-ash,
sight.  floating on their sides, the mothers also seemed quietly eyeing us.
sights are seen, my lord whale keeps a wary eye on his interesting family.
singular magnificence saluted us.  But here be it premised, that owing to the
sleek, produced
small tame cows and calves; the women and children of this routed host.  Now,
smaller whales --now and then visiting our becalmed boat from the margin of the
some vast walled empire: and considering the inexhaustible wealth of spices,
squares of wood of equal size are stoutly clenched together, so that they
staggeringly running off, fettered by the enormous sidelong resistance of the
standing in the bows to prick the fugitive whales, had his hat taken clean
stands in much the same respect to the whale that a dog does to the elephant;
stay so!  Spring, men -- pull, men; never mind their backs --scrape them!
still lingered in their wake to pick up what drugged whales might be dropped
stopped the leaks for the time.  It had been next to impossible to dart these
straight perpendicular
straits of Sunda and Malacca.  By the straits of Sunda, chiefly, vessels
stranger world met our eyes as we gazed over the side.  For, suspended in
stream.
stretch the long islands of Sumatra, Java, Bally, and Timor; which, with many
stricken whale, that from the tub has reeled out hundreds of fathoms of rope;
studded oriental archipelagoes.  This rampart is pierced by several sally-ports
submarine bridal-chambers and nurseries vanished; in more and more
subtlest secrets of the seas
such fancy as the above seemed his.  And when he glanced upon the green walls
such great bodies are at times encountered, yet,
suddenly saluted by what sometimes seems thousands on thousands.  Broad on
sun has raced within his fiery ring, and needs no sustenance but what's in
surmised that the man who first thus entitled this sort of Ottoman whale,
swift whales had been gaining upon the ship, than to rejoice that the ship
swiftly glided into what had just been one of the outer circles, but now
technically known as the schoolmaster.  It is therefore not in strict
that he towed; he had also run away with the cutting-spade in him; and while
that oriental sea are enriched, it seems a significant provision of nature,
that such treasures, by the very formation of the land, should at least bear
that through that gate lay the route to his vengeance, and beheld, how that
that when at last the jerking harpoon drew out, and the towing whale sideways
that.  When by chance these precious parts in a nursing whale are cut by the
the Northern seas, and so cheating summer of all unpleasant weariness and
the Pequod pressed after them; the harpooneers handling their weapons, and
the Sperm Whale, become notified of the three keels that were after them,
the appearance, however ineffectual, of being guarded from the all-grasping
the bower; and so, being a great traveller, he leaves his anonymous babies
the coils of the harpoon-line round his tail, the cutting-spade itself had
the crazed creatures to and fro rushing about us; our beset boat was like a
the customary cheering cry was heard from aloft, and ere long a spectacle of
the first rush of the harem's lord, then is it very diverting to watch that
the frantic shoal, you bid adieu to circumspect life and only exist in a
the free end of the rope attached to that weapon, had permanently caught in
the harpoon line; and in the extraordinary agony of the wound, he was now
the herd, was owing to a cause which at first the intervening distance
the mountains, accelerate their march, all eagerness to place that perilous
the outskirts of the shoal.  In about three minutes' time, Queequeg's harpoon
the palms of his flukes, still freshly retained the plaited crumpled
the pasture by three fierce wolves, they could not possibly have evinced such
the sea for rods.  The milk is very sweet and rich; it has been tasted by
the sea.  Had these leviathans been but a flock of simple sheep, pursued over
the stern.  Oars!  Oars!  he intensely whispered, seizing the helm -- gripe
the unborn whale lies bent like a Tartar's bow.  The delicate side-fins, and
the vast host would only deploy into the Oriental seas to witness the capture
their unctuousness is small.  As for the sons and the daughters they beget,
them.  But the sight of the enraged drugged whales now and then blindly
then attached to the middle of this block, and the other end of the line
then given the probable cause inducing those vast aggregations.  Now, though
these is the spout.  It is well known that the elephant will often draw up
they came snuffling round us, right up to our gunwales, and touching them;
they were now at last under the influence of that strange perplexity of inert
thick spoutings, they plainly betrayed their distraction of panic.  This
thickening clusters.  Yes, the long calm was departing.  A low advancing hum
this terrific object seemed to recall the whole herd from their stationary
those circles, the entire area at this juncture, embraced by the whole
those watery vaults, floated the forms of the nursing mothers of the whales,
though in some few known instances giving birth to an Esau and Jacob: -- a
though the green palmy cliffs of the land soon loomed on the starboard bow,
threatened to swamp us.  Hard down with your tail, there!  cried a second
through that same gate he was now both chasing and being chased to his deadly
through the straits; gradually contracting the wings of their semicircle,
thus lay entranced, the occasional sudden frantic spectacles in the distance
time of the Commonwealth.  Thus, some of the best and furthest-descended
to another, which, close to our gunwale, seemed calmly cooling himself with
to be taken, as will hereafter be seen, by some other craft than the Pequod.
to make long ones.  Nor were the oarsmen quite idle, though their wonted
to watch this harem and its lord in their indolent ramblings.  Like
tossing the keen spade about him, wounding and murdering his own comrades.
touching at a score of ports, the whale-ship, in all that interval, may not
towing drugg.  They were cramped like malefactors with the chain and ball.
tumbling upon their inner centre, as if to pile themselves up in one common
twin-jets of the Right Whale, which, dividing at top, falls over in two
universally, a lone whale --as a solitary Leviathan is called --proves an
unprincipled young rakes like him are to be permitted to invade the sanctity
unwearied activity with which of late they have been hunted over all four
upon the school of females, you invariably see a male of full grown magnitude,
us up.  Keeping at the centre of the lake, we were occasionally visited by
us, but not at us, as if we were but a bit of Gulf-weed in their new-born
vanished; then, with the tapering force of his parting momentum, we glided
vessels, which, in those waters, have been remorselessly boarded and pillaged.
vivid green Cockatoo Point on the Sumatra side, emerging at last upon the
waif is a pennoned pole, two or three of which are carried by every boat;
wall that hemmed us in; the wall that had only admitted us in order to shut
warmth.  By the time they have lounged up and down the promenade of the
was flung; the stricken fish darted blinding spray in our faces, and then
was soon heard; and then like to the tumultuous masses of block-ice when the
was still more strangely evinced by those of their number, who, completely
was the nature of those occult lessons he inculcated into some of his pupils.
water or dust in his trunk, and then elevating it, jet it forth in a
water; which, when three years afloat, the Nantucketer,
waters, and the best of wives she is, though she keeps so many moody
way greatly diminished; moreover, that as we went still further and further
we thus tore a white gash in the sea, on all sides menaced as we flew, by
we were now in that enchanted calm which they say lurks at the heart of every
weapons and their wants.  She has a whole lake's contents bottled in her ample
western world.  The shores of the Straits of Sunda are unsupplied with those
whale wounded (as we afterwards learned) in this part, but not effectually,
whale, sweep inshore by the Philippine Islands, and gain the far coast of
whale-jets were up-playing and sparkling in the noon-day air.  Unlike the
whales, who sometimes come to deadly battle, and all for love.  They fence
whales; only they did not so completely come and go; for they constantly
when a general pausing commotion among the whales gave animating token that
where Ahab, though everywhere else foiled in his pursuit, firmly counted upon
which may probably be set down at nine months, producing but one at a time;
while other ships may have gone to China from New York, and back again,
while ponderous planets of unwaning woe revolve round me, deep down and deep
white mist, continually rising and falling away to leeward.  Seen from the
whole they are hereditarily entitled to en bon point.  It is very curious
why, those sons and daughters must take care of themselves; at least, with
wide extent of the herd had hitherto prevented them from learning the precise
will about his face, I say again he has no face.
with any game hereabouts, the ship had well nigh entered the straits, when
with many other sinewy Saxonisms of this sort, which emigrated to
with stun-sail piled on stun-sail, we sailed along, driving these
with the hempen one, so that the cub is thereby trapped.  Some of the
with their long lower jaws, sometimes locking them together, and so striving
wooden block, it caught under one of the seats of the boat, and in an
worked loose from his flesh.  So that tormented to madness, he was now
world-wandering whale-ship carries no cargo but herself and crew, their
worshipped white-elephant in the coronation procession of the Siamese!  So
wounded planks, but we stuffed two or three drawers and shirts in, and so
yet it is to be observed that as a whole the herd neither advanced nor
you Queequeg --the whale there! --prick him! --hit him!  Stand up --stand up, and
your oars, and clutch your souls, now!  My God, men, stand by!  Shove him off,
