














     Father Mapple rose, and in a mild voice of
     For the instant he almost turns to flee again.  But he rallies.  "I seek a
     He rings every coin to find a counterfeit.  Not a forger, any way, he mutters;
     He skulks about the wharves of Joppa, and seeks a ship that's bound for
     I had not been seated very long ere a man
     In this same New Bedford there stands a
     Returning to the Spouter-Inn from the
     That ship, my friends, was the first of recorded smugglers!  the contraband
     Woe to him who, in this world, courts not dishonor!  Woe to him who would not
     and Jonah is put down for his passage.  "Point out my state-room, Sir," says
     and without a passport; whereas Virtue, if a pauper, is stopped at all
     himself with this, that spite of all his pains and pangs, he will still
     his sake this great tempest was upon them; they mercifully turn from him,
     infallibly straight itself, it but made obvious the false, lying levels
     the whale shall hold him in the smallest of his bowel's wards.  Screwed at
-- The ribs and terrors in the whale, Arched over me a dismal gloom, While
--chiefly known to me by Thy rod --mortal or immortal, here I die.  I have
--here, here lies my beloved; ye know not the desolation that broods in bosoms
--top-gallant delight is to him, who acknowledges no law or lord, but the
.  This Marble Is
.  This Tablet Is erected to his
.. < chapter X 24  A BOSOM FRIEND >
.. < chapter ix 23  THE SERMON >
.. < chapter vii 26  THE CHAPEL >
.. < chapter viii 2  THE PULPIT >
.. <p 33 >
.. <p 34 >
.. <p 35 >
.. <p 36 >
.. <p 37 >
.. <p 38 >
.. <p 39 >
.. <p 40 >
.. <p 41 >
.. <p 42 >
.. <p 43 >
.. <p 44 >
.. <p 45 >
.. <p 46 >
.. <p 47 >
.. <p 48 >
.. <p 48 >
.. <p 49 >
Almighty's bidding.  And what was that, shipmates?  To preach the Truth to the
Atlantic, Pacific, and Indian oceans.  One and all, they were harpooned and
Between the marble cenotaphs on either hand of the pulpit, the wall which
Canaan; a land, also, of corn and wine.  The streets do not run with milk;
Captain in the cabin, all the sailors for the moment desist from hoisting in
Captain laughs lowly to himself, and mutters something about the doors of
Chapel, I found Queequeg there quite alone; he having left the Chapel before
Delightful inducements to embark, fine chance for promotion, it seems -- aye,
Desolation, off Patagonia, November 1st,
Entering, I found a small scattered congregation of sailors, and sailors'
Eternity.  But what then?  Methinks we have hugely mistaken this matter of
God came upon him in the whale, and swallowed him down to living gulfs of
God of breezes fair or foul is first invoked for favorable winds.  Yes, the
He drooped and fell away from himself for a moment; then lifting his face to
I called my God, When I could scarce believe him mine, He bowed his ear to my
I guess he's the adulterer that broke jail in old Gomorrah, or belike, one of
I observed that he carried no umbrella, and certainly had not come in his
In what census of living creatures, the dead of mankind are included; why it
Indian Ocean or Pacific, who fail to make a Sunday visit to the spot.  I am
Insurance Companies pay death-forfeitures upon immortals; in what eternal,
Jonah -- And God had prepared a great fish to swallow up Jonah.  Shipmates,
Jonah before you to be copied for his sin but I do place him before you as a
Jonah fairly takes out his purse, prudent suspicions still molest the Captain.
Jonah now.  "I'm travel-weary; I need sleep." "Thou look'st like it," says
Jonah sees the rearing bowsprit pointing high upward, but soon beat downward
Jonah's prodigy of ponderous misery drags him drowning down to sleep.  And
Jonah.  While he was speaking these words, the howling of the shrieking,
Joppa, the modern Jaffa, shipmates, is on the most easterly coast of the
Joppa.  But God is everywhere; Tarshish he never reached.  As we have seen,
Life and Death.  Methinks that what they call my shadow here on earth is my
Lord came a second time; and Jonah, bruised and beaten --his ears, like two
Lord his God, and is only a patriot to heaven.  Delight is to him, whom all
Mapple enjoyed such a wide reputation for sincerity and sanctity, that I
Mediterranean, the Syrian; and Tarshish or Cadiz more than two thousand miles
Memory By his Sister.  Sacred To the Memory of Robert Long, Willis Ellery,
Midships!  midships!  There was a low rumbling of heavy sea-boots among the
Nathan Coleman, Walter Canny, Seth Macy, and Samuel Gleig, Forming one of the
No, thought I, there must be some sober reason for this thing; furthermore,
Pagan, which even his uncouthness could not altogether maim.  He looked like
Puritanic sands.
Sacred To the Memory of The late Captain Ezekiel Hardy, Who in the bows of
Shipmates, it is a two-stranded lesson; a lesson to us all as sinful men,
Spain; as far by water, from Joppa, as Jonah could possibly have sailed in
Still New Bedford is a queer place.  Had it not been for us whalemen, that
Strong intuitions of the man assure the mariners he can be no innocent.  In
Talbot, Who, at the age of eighteen, was lost overboard, Near the Isle of
Tarshish.  There lurks, perhaps, a hitherto unheeded meaning here.  By all
The face of my Deliverer God.  My song for ever shall record That terrible,
This Tablet Is erected to his Memory by His Widow.  Shaking off the sleet
Whaleman's Chapel, and few are the moody fishermen, shortly bound for the
Yes, Ishmael, the same fate may be thine.  But somehow I grew merry again.
You cannot hide the soul.  Through all his unearthly tattooings, I thought I
You must go to New Bedford to see a brilliant wedding; for, they say, they
a Hebrew," he cries --and then --"I fear the Lord the God of Heaven who hath
a hard command.  But all the things that God would have us do are hard for us
a large number of fifties being found together, that his astonishment at the
a man who had never cringed and never had had a creditor.  Whether it was,
a masterless commotion that he scarce heeds the moment when he drops seething
a noble thing is that canticle in the fish's belly!  How billow-like and
a perpendicular side ladder, like those used in mounting
a ship from a boat at sea.  The wife of a whaling captain had provided the
a stove boat will make me an immortal by brevet.  Yes, there is death in this
a sure delight; and higher the top of that delight, than the bottom of the
a wicked nineveh, jonah, appalled at the hostility he should raise, fled from
about us!  But what is this lesson that the book of Jonah teaches?
accounts Tarshish could have been no other city than the modern Cadiz.  That's
advertised, they let him pass, and he descends into the cabin.  "Who's
again towards the tormented deep.  Terrors upon terrors run shouting through
again, and every eye on the preacher.  He paused a little; then kneeling in
against the spile upon the wharf to which the ship is moored, offering five
air, the beautiful and bountiful horse-chestnuts, candelabra-wise, proffer
all God's sun-lit waves rolled by, And lift me deepening down to doom.  I saw
all outward worldly ties and connexions?  Yes, for replenished with the meat
already small area of the chapel, the architect, it seemed, had acted upon the
among which it hung.  The lamp alarms and frightens Jonah; as lying in his
among whom he was a very great favorite.  He had been a sailor and a
and a lesson to me as a pilot of the living God.  As sinful men, it is a
and bowing his head lowly, with an aspect of the deepest yet manliest
and earth; and"vomited out Jonah upon the dry land;" when the word of the
and every plank thunders with trampling feet right over Jonah's head; in all
and finding no speedy vent runs roaring fore and aft, till the mariners come
and gardens more opulent, than in New Bedford.  Whence came they?  how planted
and more awful lesson which Jonah teaches to me as a pilot of
and offered a prayer so deeply devout that he seemed kneeling and praying at
and seek by other means to save the ship.  But all in vain; the indignant
and still more to me, for I am a greater sinner than ye.  And now how gladly
and there's naught to staunch it; so, after sore wrestlings in his berth,
and wine of the word, to the faithful man of God, this pulpit, I see, is a
and woe to that pilot of the living God who slights it.  Woe to him whom this
answer is forced from Jonah by the hard hand of God that is upon him.  "I am
answered.  Yes; all these brave houses and flowery gardens came from the
are not without their meanings.  But Faith, like a jackal, feeds among the
are pitiful.  For when Jonah, not yet supplicating God for mercy, since he
arrayed in a decent suit, he quietly approached the pulpit.  Like most old
as an anchor and dropped into the sea; when instantly an oily calmness floats
as though they were drawing nigh the odorous Moluccas instead of the
ashes!  What despair in those immovable inscriptions!  What deadly voids and
assented to.  Then the Captain knows that Jonah is a fugitive; but at the
at last, standing motionless, with closed eyes, for the moment, seemed
awaiting him; and the whale shoots-to all his ivory teeth, like the Lord out
away the Captain from that scent.  "I'll sail with ye," --he says, --"the
bad taste.  Halting for an instant at the foot of the ladder, and with both
be his, who coming to lay him down, can say with his final breath --O Father!
be mine the lesson that Jonah teaches to all sinners; and therefore to ye,
be passed; and at last amid the whirl of woe he feels, a deep stupor steals
be true, even though to be false were salvation!  Yea, woe to him who, as the
bear a hardy helm; for lo!  the sun is breaking through; the clouds are
beating against a terrible storm off a lee coast of black rocks and snowy
being itself nicely headed, and stained with a mahogany color, the whole
being.  In fact take my body who will, take it I say, it is not me.  And
benches, and a still slighter shuffling of women's shoes, and all was quiet
berth his tormented eyes roll round the place, and this thus far successful
billow leaping over the bulwarks.  Wave after wave thus leaps into the ship,
black and bold, there seemed tokens of a spirit that would dare a thousand
bliss; why all the living so strive to hush all the dead; wherefore but the
boats' crews of the Ship Eliza, Who were towed out of sight by a Whale, On
boatswain calls all hands to lighten her; when boxes, bales, and jars are
boisterously grand!  We feel the floods surging over us; we sound with him to
boldness to his face, only looks so much the more a coward.  He will not
breakers.  But high above the
breeching up towards the warm and pleasant sun, and all the delights of air
bright terraces of flowers upon the barren refuse rocks thrown aside at
brighter relief, and looked more expansive than it otherwise would, this I
brow, and the light leaping from his eye, made all his simple hearers look
burglar hastening to cross the seas.  So disordered, self-condemning is his
business of whaling --a speechlessly quick chaotic bundling of a man into
but no sooner does he hear that hollow voice, than he darts a scrutinizing
but the lock contains no key.  Hearing him foolishly fumbling there, the
but too well knew the darkness of his deserts, --when wretched Jonah cries out
captain had not looked up to jonah, though the man now stands before him;
carriage, for his tarpaulin hat ran down with melting sleet, and his great
case with swinging ones, were of cloth-covered rope, only the rounds were of
certain mild gleams of a newly developing bloom --the spring verdure peeping
chambers of my soul are all in crookedness!"  Like one who after a night of
chapel with a handsome pair of red worsted man-ropes for this ladder, which,
chaplain had not yet arrived; and there these silent islands of men and women
chaplain.  Yes, it was the famous Father Mapple, so called by the whalemen,
chest heaved as with a ground-swell; his tossed arms seemed the warring
clattering overboard; when the wind is shrieking, and the men are yelling,
closed eyes,
coast of Labrador.  As it is, parts of her back country are enough to frighten
comforted for those who we nevertheless maintain are dwelling in unspeakable
commodores of this earth, ever stands forth his own inexorable self.  Delight
communing with God and himself.  But again he leaned over towards the people,
complaints -- No more the whale did me confine.  With speed he flew to my
confess himself suspected; but that itself is strong suspicion.  So he makes
confession; whereupon the mariners became more and more appalled, but still
congregation, I knew not; but so many are the unrecorded accidents in the
continual tolling of a bell in a ship that is foundering at sea in a fog --in
contrivance, considering what manner of chapel it was, seemed by no means in
convicts' cells being never allowed to be locked within.  All dressed and
could not suspect him of courting notoriety by any mere tricks of the stage.
covered his face with his hands, and so remained kneeling, till all the
creation's final day.  And the women of New Bedford, they bloom like their own
cry, Jonah staggers to his feet, and stumbling to the deck, grasps a shroud,
darkened, doleful day read the fate of the whalemen who had gone before me,
dead lie buried beneath the green grass; who standing among flowers can say
deep.  Is not the main-truck higher than the kelson is low?  Delight is to
deliverance of him from the sea and the whale.  Shipmates, I do not place
describing Jonah's sea-storm, seemed tossed by a storm himself.  His deep
descried, and the bow must bear the earliest brunt.  From thence it is the
description of his person.  He reads, and looks from Jonah to the bill;
deserted wharf the uncheered ship for Tarshish, all careening, glides to sea.
devils.  And besides all this, there was a certain lofty bearing about the
dexterity, hand over hand, mounted the steps as if ascending the main-top of
died sixty round centuries ago; how it is that we still refuse to be
discernment detects crime in any, but whose cupidity exposes it only in the
disobeying ourselves, wherein the hardness of obeying God consists.  With
does Jonah's deep sealine sound!  what a pregnant lesson to us is this
doom, and with swift slantings tore him along"into the midst of the seas,"
door flew back upon admitting him, a quick regardful eyeing of him by all
dragged up hither from the bottom of the sea.  Can Herr Alexander perform a
dreadful punishment is just.  He leaves all his deliverance to God, contenting
dreadful storm comes on, the ship is like to break.  But now when the
drunken revelry hies to his bed, still reeling, but with conscience yet
dusty as he is, Jonah throws himself into his berth, and finds the little
elements at work; and the thunders that rolled away from off his swarthy
emblematical harpoons round yonder lofty mansion, and your question will be
enthusiasm, -- but oh!  shipmates!  on the starboard hand of every woe, there is
ere he judge him openly.  He charges him thrice the usual sum; and it's
ere he touched a deck.  How plainly he's a fugitive!  no baggage, not a
ever this earth's foremost part; all the rest comes in its rear; the pulpit
face of Falsehood!  That was it!  This, shipmates, this is that other lesson;
face that little negro idol of his; peering hard into its face, and with a
fashioned pulpits, it was a very lofty one, and since a regular stairs to
fear the Lord God then!  Straightway, he now goes on to make a full
feat like that?  In New Bedford, fathers, they say, give whales for dowers to
feature of the place, borrowed from the chaplain's former sea-farings.
fiddle-headed beak.  What could be more full of meaning? --for the pulpit is
finally the deliverance and joy of Jonah.  As with all sinners among men,
fish; and from the shuddering cold and blackness of the sea, the whale came
fishery, and so plainly did several women present wear the countenance if not
flowering youth, for among all the fissures of his wrinkles, there shone
flying scud and dark-rolling clouds, there floated a little isle of sunlight,
following, but I do not pretend to quote: -- Sacred To the Memory of John
for the Customs --"who's there?"  Oh!  how that harmless question mangles Jonah!
formed its back was adorned with a large painting representing a gallant ship
forth even beneath February's snow.  No one having previously heard his
from my ice-glazed hat and jacket, I seated myself near the door, and
from the other, as if each silent grief were insular and incommunicable.  The
from this sure Keel of the Ages.  And eternal delight and deliciousness will
from which beamed forth an angel's face; and this bright face shed a distinct
frontiers.  So Jonah's Captain prepares to test the length of Jonah's purse,
fugitive finds no refuge for his restless glance.  But that contradiction in
full of fine maples --long avenues of green and gold.  And in August, high in
furiously they mob him with their questions.  "What is thine occupation?
gale howls louder; then, with one hand raised invokingly to God, with the
gangway, there!  side away to larboard--larboard gangway to starboard!
girls breathe such musk, their sailor sweethearts smell them miles off shore,
giving utterance to a long-drawn gurgling whistle of astonishment.  He would
glance.  "We sail with the next coming tide," at last he slowly answered,
grave.  As well might those tablets stand in the cave of Elephanta as here.
great Pilot Paul has it, while preaching to others is himself a castaway!
guilty eye, skulking from his God; prowling among the shipping like a vile
hands grasping the ornamental knobs of the man-ropes, Father Mapple cast a
harpooneer in his youth, but for many years past had dedicated his life to the
hat-box, valise, or carpet-bag, --no friends accompany him to the wharf with
have reservoirs of oil in every house, and every night recklessly burn their
he but embarks for the remotest Indies of this living earth; why the Life
heard the engulphed, repenting prophet when he cried.  Then God spake unto the
hell" --when the whale grounded upon the ocean's utmost bones, even then, God
her affrighted face from the steep gullies in the blackness overhead, aghast
here placed by their surviving Shipmates.
high Heaven, they fall to casting lots, to see for whose cause this great
him --a far, far upward, and inward delight --who against the proud gods and
him, and at last, fully to test the truth, by referring the whole matter to
him, imputable to that adventurous maritime life he had led.  When he entered
him, leaving smooth water behind.  He goes down in the whirling heart of such
him.  Yet even then beyond the reach of any plummet --"out of the belly of
hint of Father Mapple, and finished the pulpit without a stairs, substituting
his boat was killed by a Sperm Whale on the coast of Japan, August 3d,
his countenance yet had a something in it which was by no means disagreeable.
his feet on the stove hearth, and in one hand was holding close up to his
his heathenish way.  But being now interrupted, he put up the image; and
his look, as he silently turned over the leaves of the Book once more; and,
his mission, and sought to escape his duty and his God by taking ship at
his prison.  Then Jonah prayed unto learn a weighty lesson.  For sinful as he
his soul.  In all his cringing attitudes, the God-fugitive is now too plainly
his vessel.  the perpendicular parts of this side ladder, as is usually the
history, could for the first time behold Father Mapple without the utmost
how it is that to his name who yesterday departed for the other world, we
howling of the storm.  A brief pause ensued; the preacher slowly turned over
humility, he spake these words: Shipmates, God has laid but one hand upon
hundred gold coins for the apprehension of a parricide, and containing a
in his countenance.  This savage was the only person present who seemed to
in, in all New England.  It is a land of oil, true enough; but not like
interest, because there were certain engrafted clerical peculiarities about
into countries where God does not reign, but only the Captains of this earth.
into the wall on either side the pulpit.  Three of them ran something like the
into the yawning jaws
is its prow.
is that a universal proverb says of them, that
is to him whose strong arms yet support him, when the ship of this base
is, Jonah does not weep and wail for direct deliverance.  He feels that his
it must symbolize something unseen.  Can it be, then, that by that act of
its axis against the side, a swinging lamp slightly oscillates in Jonah's
jack-knife gently whittling away at its nose, meanwhile humming to himself in
joints in the present instance seemed unnecessary.  For I was not prepared to
jonah gasps.  then, in that contracted hole, sunk, too, beneath the ship's
known.  The sailors mark him; more and more certain grow their suspicions of
lap began counting the pages with deliberate regularity; at every fiftieth
last bales received, the lamp, flame and all, though in slight motion, still
leads the world.  From thence it is the storm of God's quick wrath is first
lengths in spermaceti candles.  In summer time, the town is sweet to see;
lesson to us all, because it is a story of the sin, hard-heartedness,
like oysters observing the sun through the water, and thinking that thick
like these.  What bitter blanks in those black-bordered marbles which cover no
likewise another answer to a question not put by them, but the unsolicited
look towards His holy temple.  And here, shipmates, is true and faithful
look upwards, and then with a truly sailorlike but still reverential
look, that had there been policemen in
made the sea and the dry land!"  Fear him, O Jonah?  Aye, well mightest thou
maintains a permanent obliquity with reference to the room; though, in truth,
man!  Oh!  most contemptible and worthy of all scorn; with slouched hat and
meanest thou, O sleeper!  arise!"  Startled from his lethargy by that direful
ministry.  At the time I now write of, Father Mapple was in the hardy winter
model for repentance.  Sin not; but if you do, take heed to repent of it like
money, how much is that, --I'll pay now."  For it is particularly written,
more appals him.  The floor, the ceiling, and the side, are all awry.  "Oh!  so
multitude of pages was excited.  With much interest I sat watching him.  Savage
my conscience hangs in me!" he groans, "straight upward, so it burns; but the
needs scarcely to be told, with what feelings, on the eve of a Nantucket
nigh to drowning while yet afloat.  And ever, as the white moon shows
no quarter in the truth, and kills, burns, and destroys all sin though he
nor in the spring-time do they pave them with fresh eggs.  Yet, in spite of
nothing; I leave eternity to Thee; for what is man that he should live out
notice my entrance; because he was the only one who could not read, and,
now the time of tide has come; the ship casts off her cables; and from the
of God --never mind now what that command was, or how conveyed --which he found
of a certain venerable robustness entered; immediately as the storm-pelted
of a healthy old age; that sort of old age which seems merging into a second
of the cloth called bearskin, I fought my way against the stubborn storm.
of the fish's belly.  But observe his prayer, and so many white bolts, upon
of the relatives of the seamen whose names appeared there were now among the
of water within the walls.  But the side ladder was not the only strange
omnipotent is art; which in many a district of New Bedford has superinduced
on him with a quick fear that was strange to them.  There now came a lull in
one removed, and hung up in a little space in an adjacent corner; when,
one, they look so bony.  The town itself is perhaps the dearest place to live
other they not unreluctantly lay hold of Jonah.  And now behold Jonah taken up
out from the east, and the sea is still, as Jonah carries down the gale with
out upon this special errand.  The sky had changed from clear,
over him, as over the man who bleeds to death, for conscience is the wound,
over the pulpit, deliberately drag up the ladder step by step, till the whole
page --as I fancied --stopping a moment, looking vacantly around him, and
page, said: Beloved shipmates, clinch the last verse of the first chapter of
paid the fare thereof" ere the craft did sail.  And taken with the context,
panelled front was in the likeness of a ship's bluff bows, and the Holy Bible
passage
passage in this ship to Tarshish; how soon sail ye, sir?"  Thus far the busy
penniless.  In this world, shipmates, sin that pays its way can travel freely,
people had departed, and he was left alone in the place.
persuade.  And if we obey God, we must disobey ourselves; and it is in this
physical isolation, he signifies his spiritual withdrawal for the time, from
pilot cloth jacket seemed almost to drag him to the floor with the weight of
plate now inserted into the Victory's plank where Nelson fell.  Ah, noble
pleasing to God was this conduct in Jonah, is shown in the eventual
pluck it out from under the robes of Senators and Judges.  Delight,
pondered some time without fully comprehending the reason for this.  Father
power.  Nearly all joined in singing this hymn, which swelled high above the
prefix so significant and infidel a word, and yet do not thus entitle him, if
pretty
pricking him, as the plungings of the Roman race-horse but so much the more
prophet!  What
pulpit, it had not escaped me that however convenient for a ship, these
raging sea, feels not the reeling timbers, and little hears he or heeds he
rather than to appal!  Woe to him whose good name is more to him than goodness!
receiving the last items of her cargo; and as he steps on board to see its
red roses.  But roses only bloom in summer; whereas the fine carnation of
refuse resurrections to the beings who have placelessly perished without a
relief, As on a radiant dolphin borne; Awful, yet bright, as lightning shone
repentance; not clamorous for pardon, but grateful for punishment.  And how
rested on the projecting piece of scroll work, fashioned after a ship's
robbed a widow;" or,"Joe, do you mark him; he's a bigamist;" or,"Harry lad,
rolling off --serenest azure is at hand.  Nor was the pulpit itself without a
room; and the ship, heeling over towards the wharf with the weight of the
rumor of a knocking in a tomb will terrify a whole city.  All these things
same time resolves to help a flight that paves its rear with gold.  Yet when
sat steadfastly eyeing several marble tablets, with black borders, masoned
saw the traces of a simple honest heart; and in his large, deep eyes, fiery
sea-shells, still multitudinously murmuring of the ocean --Jonah did the
see Father Mapple after gaining the height, slowly turn round, and stooping
seeking to flee from Him.  He thinks that a ship made by men, will carry him
self-containing stronghold --a lofty Ehrenbreitstein, with a perennial well
ship, the angel seemed to say, beat on, beat on, thou noble ship, and
shipmates, as if it were a thing not to be overlooked in this history,"that he
shrieks of the storm.  Each silent worshipper seemed purposely sitting apart
sit, and listen as you listen, while some one of you reads me that other
slanting storm without seemed to add new power to the preacher, who, when
solemnity of the scene, there was a wondering gaze of incredulous curiosity
soon, going to the table, took up a large book there, and placing it on his
spot of radiance upon the ship's tossed deck, something like that silver
state-room ceiling almost resting on his forehead.  The air is close, and
still intently eyeing him.  "No sooner, sir?" --"Soon enough for any honest man
strands in the mighty cable of the Scriptures.  Yet what depths of the soul
strike his steel tags into him; as one who in that miserable plight still
striven to be Thine, more than to be this world's, or mine own.  Yet this is
such a height would, by its long angle with the floor, seriously contract the
such tones he commenced reading the following hymn; but changing his manner
suddenly awakened fears, the swift punishment, repentance, prayers, and
sunny cold, to driving sleet and mist.  Wrapping myself in my shaggy jacket
sure that I did not.  Returning from my first morning stroll, I again sallied
tablets sympathetically caused the old wounds to bleed afresh.  Oh!  ye whose
tempest was upon them.  The lot is Jonah's; that discovered, then how
that bloom of theirs, ye cannot, save in Salem, where they tell me the young
that goes a passenger."  Ha!  Jonah, that's another stab.  But he swiftly calls
that joyful hour; I give the glory to my God, His all the mercy and the
the Captain, "there's thy room."  Jonah enters, and would lock the door,
the Off-shore Ground in the Pacific, December 31st,
the behavior of poor Jonah.  The eager mariners but ask him who he is, and
the benediction some time.  He was sitting on a bench before the fire, with
the best of it; and when the sailors find him not to be the man that is
the bottom of the sea.  This ended, in prolonged solemn tones, like the
the congregation, sufficiently attested that this fine old man was the
the far rush of the mighty whale, which even now with open mouth is cleaving
the frightened master comes to him, and shrieks in his dead ear, "What
the goods, to mark the stranger's evil eye.  Jonah sees this; but in vain he
the kelpy bottom of the waters; sea-weed and all the slime of the sea is
the lamp more and
the leaves of the Bible, and at last, folding his hand down upon the proper
the lifetime of his God?  He said no more, but slowly waving a benediction,
the living God.  How being an anointed pilot-prophet, or speaker of true
the missing murderers from Sodom."  Another runs to read the bill that's stuck
the opening maw of hell, With endless pains and sorrows there; Which none but
the opinion of learned men.  And where is Cadiz, shipmates?  Cadiz is in
the passer-by their tapering upright cones of congregated blossoms.  So
the pulpit's bows, folded his large brown hands across his chest, uplifted his
the seas after him.  Aye, shipmates, Jonah was gone down into the sides of
the ship --a berth in the cabin as I have taken it, and was fast asleep.  But
the sin of this son of Amittai was in his wilful disobedience of the command
the trappings of some unceasing grief, that I feel sure that here before me
the water it had absorbed.  However, hat and coat and overshoes were one by
the waves of the billows of the seas of the boisterous mob can never shake
their adieux.  At last, after much dodging search, he finds the Tarshish ship
their cheeks is perennial as sunlight in the seventh heavens.  Elsewhere match
their daughters, and portion off their nieces with a few porpoises a-piece.
their gamesome but still serious way, one whispers to the other --"Jack, he's
their hands upon him.  Frighted Jonah trembles, and summoning all his
them again, showed a deep joy in his eyes, as he cried out with a heavenly
then begin again at the next fifty; seeming to commence at number one each
then, shipmates, that Jonah sought to flee world-wide from God?  Miserable
there?" cries the Captain at his busy desk, hurriedly making out his papers
therefore three cheers for Nantucket; and come a stove boat and stove body
therefore, was not reading those frigid inscriptions on the wall.  Whether any
they tell no tales, though containing more secrets than the Goodwin Sands;
they that feel can tell-- Oh, I was plunging to despair.  In black distress,
things, and bidden by the Lord to sound those unwelcome truths in the ears of
this book, containing only four chapters --four yarns --is one of the smallest
this is full of meaning.  Now Jonah's Captain, shipmates, was one whose
this raging tumult, Jonah sleeps his hideous sleep.  He sees no black sky and
this sin of disobedience in him, Jonah still further flouts at God, by
this, nowhere in all America will you find more patrician-like houses; parks
those ancient days, when the Atlantic was an almost unknown sea.  Because
those days, jonah, on the mere suspicion of something wrong, had been arrested
though he was, and hideously marred about the face --at least to my taste --
time, as though he could not count more than fifty, and it was only by such
to do --remember that --and hence, he oftener commands us than endeavors to
to look out upon the sea.  But at that moment he is sprung upon by a panther
to the westward from that, just outside the Straits of Gibraltar.  See ye not
to them to take him and cast him forth into the sea, for he knew that for
tombs, and even from these dead doubts she gathers her most vital hope.  It
too, that his head being shaved, his forehead was drawn out in freer and
towards the concluding stanzas, burst forth with a pealing exultation and joy
trace of the same sea-taste that had achieved the ladder and the picture.  Its
tract of land would this day perhaps have been in as howling condition as the
treacherous world has gone down beneath him.  Delight is to him, who gives
tries to look all ease and confidence; in vain essays his wretched smile.
true substance.  Methinks that in looking at things spiritual, we are too much
turning sideways was surprised to see Queequeg near me.  Affected by the
turns and turns in giddy anguish, praying God for annihilation until the fit
unassuming authority ordered the scattered people to condense.  Starboard
unbidden infidelities in the lines that seem to gnaw upon all Faith, and
unstirring paralysis, and deadly, hopeless trance, yet lies antique Adam who
upon this once scraggy scoria of a country?  Go and gaze upon the iron
voyage, I regarded those marble tablets, and by the murky light of that
was deposited within, leaving him impregnable in his little Quebec.  I
was jonah.  but the sea rebels; he will not bear the wicked burden.  A
water the thinnest of air.  Methinks my body is but the lees of my better
water-line, Jonah feels the heralding presentiment of that stifling hour, when
waters when God has brewed them into a gale!  Woe to him who seeks to please
were assembled those, in whose unhealing hearts the sight of those bleak
were wrapped about his head," and all the watery world of woe bowled over
when they will, for stave my soul, Jove himself cannot.
whence comest thou?  thy country?  what people?" but mark now, my shipmates,
where from; whereas, they not only receive an answer to those questions, but
where the eddying depths sucked him ten thousand fathoms down, and"the weeds
while all his sympathetic shipmates now crowd round Jonah, prepared to lay
wives and widows.  A muffled silence reigned, only broken at times by the
woe is
wood, so that at every step there was a joint.  At my first glimpse of the
world charms from Gospel duty!  Woe to him who seeks to pour oil upon the
world's a ship on its passage out, and not a voyage complete; and the pulpit
would I come down from this mast-head and sit on the hatches there where you
you; both his hands press upon me.  I have read ye by what murky light may
