

























     ( As told at the Golden Inn.)
     And as for Pirates, when they chance to cross each other's cross-bones, the
     Barrens and Salisbury Plains of the sea, two whaling vessels descrying each
     Days, weeks passed, and under easy
     Nevertheless, this same expressive word has now for many years been in
     South-eastward from the Cape, off the
     The Cape of Good Hope, and all the watery region round about there, is much
     The ostensible reason why Ahab did not go on
     This latter circumstance, with its own particular accompaniments, forming
     and discover sights more sweet and strange than any Cyclades or Islands of
     and every stunsail spread.  The best man in the ship must take the helm.
     and such like pretty exclamations.  Why it is that all Merchant-seamen, and
     complete boat's crew must leave the ship, and hence as the boat steerer or
     for leagues and leagues are flanked by ancient and unentered forests, where
     for what was thought to be one of the spare boats, and even solicitously
     friends, one saint's eve, smoking upon the thick-gilt tiled piazza of the
     insulated, immemorial, unalterable countries, which even in these modern
     man walked.  But though the ship so swiftly sped, and though from every eye,
     milliner's tiller decorated with gay cords and ribbons.  But the whale-boat
     sense of peculiar dread at this flitting apparition, as if it were
     ship she now meets.  Besides, they would exchange the whaling news, and have
     the Town-Ho had all but certainly arrived in perfect safety at her port
     though in after life he had long followed our austere Atlantic and your
     tightly clenched hand.  Though the body was erect, the head was thrown back
     wax, day after day tore on through all the swift madness and gladness of the
--Buffalo!  Pray, what is a Lakeman, and where is Buffalo?" said Don
.. < chapter li 16  THE SPIRIT-SPOUT >
.. < chapter lii 13  THE ALBATROSS >
.. < chapter liii 17  THE GAM >
.. < chapter liv 26  THE TOWN-HO'S STORY >
.. <p 229 >
.. <p 230 >
.. <p 230 >
.. <p 231 >
.. <p 232 >
.. <p 233 >
.. <p 234 >
.. <p 234 >
.. <p 234n. >
.. <p 235 >
.. <p 236 >
.. <p 236 >
.. <p 237 >
.. <p 238 >
.. <p 239 >
.. <p 240 >
.. <p 240 >
.. <p 241 >
.. <p 242 >
.. <p 243 >
.. <p 244 >
And in return for that courtesy, the outward-bound ship would receive the
And often you will notice that being conscious of the eyes of the whole
And yet, though herds of whales were seen by night, not one whaleman
At that moment the two wakes were fairly crossed, and instantly, then, in
Because, in the case of pirates, say, I should like to know whether that
But all this might remain inadequately estimated, were not something said
But where this superiority in the English whalemen does really consist, it
Close to our bows, strange forms in the water darted hither and thither before
Golden Inn.  Of those fine cavaliers, the young Dons, Pedro and Sebastian,
Goney that another
High times indeed, if whaling captains were wheeled about the water on castors
Johnson never attained to that erudition; Noah Webster's ark does not hold it.
King Solomon, then there were promise in the voyage.  But in pursuit of those
King's Mills; how much more natural, I say, that under such circumstances
Lake Erie, Don; but--I crave your courtesy--may be, you shall soon hear further
Nantucketer, with his nondescript provincialisms, as a sort of sea-peasant.
Nevertheless, so potent an influence did this thing have on those seamen in
Only her lower sails were set.  A wild sight it was to see her long-bearded
Ontario, and Huron, and Superior, and Michigan, --possess an ocean-like
Pirates and Man-of-War's men, and Slave-ship sailors, cherish such a scornful
Plain in England; if
Sebastian, rising in his swinging mat of grass.  On the eastern shore of our
So, with his ivory leg inserted into its accustomed hole, and with one hand
Starbuck forget the old man's aspect, when one night going down into the cabin
The cabin-compass is called the tell-tale, because without going to the
Then, with every mast-head manned, the piled-up craft rolled down before the
Therefore he had not solicited a boat's crew from them, nor had he in any way
These temporary apprehensions, so vague but so awful, derived a wondrous
Though, to be sure, from the small number of English whalers, such meetings
Whale-ships, generally on a cruising-ground; when, after exchanging hails,
Whaler of Nantucket, was cruising in your Pacific here, not very many days'
Whence he came in a mannerly world like this, by what sort of unaccountable
a negative answer to the question he put.  For, as it eventually turned out,
a tyro in the far ocean fisheries --a whaler at sea, and long absent from
a year or two later than the last one on her blurred and thumb-worn files.
about the open sea on planks, bits of wreck, oars, whale-boats, canoes,
about.  For the long absent ship, the outward-bounder, perhaps, has letters
accordance with their singular ways, shoals of small harmless fish, that for
addressed his mates.  In tempestuous times like these, after everything above
advancing still further and further in our van, this solitary jet seemed for
advantage of his windward position, he again seized his trumpet, and knowing
after spending his uniform interval there for several successive nights
against the leaping waves, each man had slipped himself into a sort of
ahead, the Goney (Albatross) by name.  As she slowly drew nigh, from my lofty
ahoy!  Have ye seen the White Whale?  But as the strange captain, leaning over
air beneath the feet; while still she rushed along, as if two antagonistic
alike the full-rigged merchant ship, the armed cruiser of the State, the
all space, in repugnance to our vengeful errand, seemed vacating itself of
all; but upon making sail to overtake it, once more it disappeared as if it
also all
an agreeable chat.  For not only would they meet with all the sympathies of
an indifferent air concerning Fedallah.  He was such a creature as civilized,
and all men his descendants, unknowing whence he came, eyed each other as
and all the time indulging, perhaps, in finical criticism upon each other's
and aloft has been secured, nothing more can be done but passively to await
and ash-holes of the earth to man these floating outlaws of whalers; and the
and by the goat-like craggy guns of lofty Mackinaw; they have heard the fleet
and coat.  On the table beside him lay unrolled one of those charts of tides
and currents which have previously been spoken of.  His lantern swung from his
and days we voyaged along, through seas so wearily, lonesomely mild, that
and stand a look-out there, with the same precision as if it had been day.
and though, when the ship slowly glided close under our stern, we six men in
another little item about Gamming which must not be forgotten here.  All
anywhere in his boat, he always sits in the stern sheets on a comfortable,
as direful as any that lash the salted wave; they know what shipwrecks are,
as publicly narrated on the ship, the whole of this strange affair I now
at the same silent hour, it was again announced: again it was descried by
authenticated ones too, where the captain has been known for an uncommonly
away; for in a whaler wonders soon wane.  Besides, now and then such
barometer stood, he saw him with closed eyes sitting straight in his
barrels?  And that question once answered, pirates straightway steer apart,
beasts, so torn and bepatched the raiment that had survived nearly four years
been nurtured by all those agrarian
being off the mouth of the Rio de la Plata; and the Carrol Ground, an
blown-off Japanese junks, and what not; that Beelzebub himself might climb up
board of the whaler we had spoken was this: the wind and sea betokened
board the stranger, had not the threatening wind forbade.  But taking
boat.  now, with the subordinate phantoms, what wonder remained soon waned
both parties speak one language, as is the case with Americans and English.
bowline secured to the rail, in which he swung as in a loosened belt.  Few or
bred.  Cape of Good Hope, do they call ye?  Rather Cape Tormentoto, as called
brotherly love about it at all.  As touching Slave-ships meeting, why, they are
buoyant self-command, he generally carries his hands in his trowsers'
but himself.  Besides, the English whalers sometimes affect a kind of
but to wonder at it.  Mysteriously jetted into the clear moonlight,
by her aspect that the stranger vessel was a Nantucketer and shortly bound
by two great contrasting nations, as the Atlantic is; they furnish long
cannot sustain
capitals of Buffalo and Cleveland, as well as Winnebago villages; they float
captain is all alive to the importance of sustaining his dignity by
captain, having some unusual reason for believing that rare good luck awaited
captains, officers, and not a few of the men are personally known to each
casually encountering each other in such inhospitable wilds, these twain, for
catching hold of anything with his hands; indeed, as token of his entire,
circumstances is it wise for any maimed man to enter a whale-boat in the
common pursuit and mutually shared privations and perils.  Nor would
common.  They supposed a sword-fish had stabbed her, gentlemen.  But the
communities, especially the Oriental isles to the east of the continent --those
compass at the helm, the Captain, while below, can inform himself of the
constant use among some fifteen thousand true born Yankees.  Certainly it
contemplative Pacific; yet was he quite as vengeful and full of social
could not find it after searching the hold as low down as was possible in
course of the ship.
critical moment or two, in a sudden squall say --to seize hold of the nearest
crossing the Pine Barrens in New York State, or the equally desolate Salisbury
cruising-ground itself, even though they are equally long absent from home.
cutting each other on the high seas, like a brace of dandies in Broadway;
cutting the small wooden skewers, which when the
daily usage, it was observed that she made more water in her hold than
dangerous deck, manifested the gloomiest reserve; and more seldom than ever
darting or stabbing at the whale; when it was observed how often he stood up
days still preserve much of the ghostly aboriginalness of earth's primal
days went by, and not only was the leak yet undiscovered, but it sensibly
deemed our ship some drifting, uninhabited craft; a thing appointed to
delicacy, to call it so, were they governed in this matter, that they kept
demanding repose he would not seek that repose in his hammock.  Never could
demoniac waves.  By night the same muteness of humanity before the shrieks of
desolation, and therefore fit roosting-place for their homeless selves.  And
destined, a thing of the utmost importance to her.  And in degree, all this
difference of country make any very essential difference; that is, so long as
dimly; but the like of whom now and then glide among the unchanging Asiatic
distant Crozetts, a good cruising ground for Right Whalemen, a sail loomed
do not very often occur, and when they do occur there is too apt to be a
does not take much to heart; probably, because he knows that he has a few
domestic people in the temperate zone only see in their dreams, and that but
dotted all round their banks; here and there are frowned upon by batteries,
emotions, then, the seamen beheld this old Oriental perched aloft at such
endless plain, and by sailing eastward we could for ever reach new distances,
ensigns, that there does not seem to be much right-down hearty good-will and
ever alluring us on.  Nor with the immemorial superstition of their race, and
everlastingly without any haven in store, or beat that black air without any
exactly shaping the thigh board, or clumsy cleat, as it is sometimes called,
except he could contribute some of that information he so absorbingly sought.
expansiveness, with many of the ocean's noblest traits; with many of its
far apart latitudes and longitudes, that unnearable spout was cast by one
far manilla; this lakeman, in the land-locked heart of our America, had yet
far mysteries we dream of, or in tormented chase of that demon phantom that,
feathers to the sky; still beckoning us on from before, the solitary jet
feeling towards Whale-ships; this is a question it would be hard to answer.
firmly grasping a shroud, Ahab for hours and hours would stand gazing dead to
first hail is -- How many skulls? --the same way that whalers hail-- How many
first mere mention of the White Whale's name to another ship, Ahab for a
fishermen, mildly eyeing us as they passed, said not one word to our own
fishery.  In a pirate, man-of-war, or slave ship, when the captain is rowed
floor-screwed chair; the rain and half-melted sleet of the storm from which
foibles himself.  So, then, we see that of all ships separately sailing the
for one of them may have received a transfer of letters from some third, and
for out of sight of land, however inland, they have drowned full many a
for they are infernal villains on both sides, and don't like to see overmuch
foreign seas, and especially on a common cruising-ground.  If two strangers
found bestirring himself in the matter of making thole-pins with his own hands
founder by the way, because his pumps were of the best, and being
freebooting impressions popularly connected with the open ocean.  For in their
generations, when the memory of the first man was a distinct recollection,
gentlemen, the Town-Ho, Sperm
glittering god uprising from the sea.  Fedallah first descried this jet.  For
grin at it, and repeat gamesome stuff about spouters and blubber-boilers,
had been holding the ship in the wind to diminish
had never been.  And so it served us night after night, till no one heeded it
handled Bowie-knives.  Yet was this Nantucketer a man with some good-hearted
harmless little foible in the English whale-hunters, which the Nantucketer
harpooneer is of the number, that subordinate is the steersman upon the
has a Gam, a thing so utterly unknown to all other ships that they never
has no seat astern, no sofa of that sort whatever, and no tiller at all.
have laid him down on the lone Nantucket beach, to nurse at his maternal sea;
he cared not to consort, even for five minutes, with any stranger captain,
he had some time before emerged, still slowly dripping from the unremoved hat
heard of the name even; and if by chance they should hear of it, they only
heaved and heaved, still unrestingly heaved the black sea, as if its vast
heightened by a circumstance of the Town-Ho's story, which seemed obscurely
her headway, he cried out in his old lion voice, -- Up helm!  Keep her off
here of the peculiar usages of whaling-vessels when meeting each other in
him as a regular headsman in the hunt --above all for Captain Ahab to be
him in those latitudes; and therefore being very averse to quit them, and
hinted his desires on that head.  Nevertheless he had taken private measures
his back, the after-oar reciprocating by rapping his knees in front.  He is
his hull hove out and repaired.  Though no small passage was before her, yet,
his very eyelashes together.  Meantime, the crew driven from the forward
home, he loudly hailed -- Ahoy there!  This is the Pequod, bound round the
home.  As if the waves had been fullers, this craft was bleached like the
homeward-bound whaleman, the Town-Ho, was encountered.  She was manned almost
horizon.  But calm, snow-white, and unvarying; still directing its fountain of
human recognition which is the meanest slave's right; thus
hunt that mortal monster in person.  But such a supposition did by no means
hunt?  As a general thing, the joint-owners of the Pequod must have plainly
if the commonest chance favored, he did not at all fear that his ship would
impressive was the cry, and so deliriously exciting, that almost every soul
in a hundred would venture a lowering for them.  You may think with what
in accordance with the preternaturalness, as it seemed, which in many
in such a prodigious hurry, they run away from each other as soon as possible.
in that boat with his solitary knee fixed in the semi-circular depression in
in that way, that when he was wakened he could not well withhold the rest.
in vain strove to make himself heard without it.  Meantime his ship was still
increased.  So much so, that now taking some alarm, the captain, making all
increasing the distance between.  While in various silent ways the seamen of
indulged in mundane amours.
influences were struggling in her --one to mount direct to heaven, the other
inlander, Steelkilt was wild-ocean born, and wild-ocean nurtured; as much
interest and curiosity at the time.  But almost everybody supposed that this
interflowing aggregate, those grand fresh-water seas of ours --Erie, and
involve the remotest suspicion as to any boat's crew being assigned to that
it may, certain it is that while the subordinate phantoms soon found their
it might have been even authority over him; all this none knew.  But one
its blue blandness, some thought there lurked a devilish charm, as for days
judgment blown, they could not have quivered more; yet still they felt no
keep the ship free; never mind if the leak should double on her.  In truth,
latest whaling intelligence from the cruising-ground to which she may be
life before our urn-like prow.  But, at last, when turning to the eastward,
lifted above a whaleman, in that assertion the pirate has no solid basis to
like arrows, the eager glances shot, yet the silvery jet was no more seen
like gouty old aldermen in patent chairs.  And as for a tiller, the
like some noted four corners of a great highway, where you meet more
line is running out are pinned over the groove in the bow: when all this was
little of his entering a boat in certain comparatively harmless vicissitudes
look-outs at those three mast-heads.  They seemed clad in the skins of
look-outs, while the quarter-deck hail was being heard from below.  Ship
main-mast.  Interweaving in its proper place this darker thread with the story
maintaining his legs.  nor is this any very easy matter; for in his rear is
man is elevated in that odd fashion, he has no proper foundation for his
mariner started to his feet as if some winged spirit had lighted in the
maritime approaches to our numerous territorial colonies from the East,
mast-heads of one ship to those of the other; yet, those forlorn-looking
matter of course, in the case of vessels owned in one seaport, and whose
metropolitan superiority over the American whalers; regarding the long, lean
midnight ship with all its shrieking crew.  Thus, gentlemen, though an
midnight-spout had almost grown a forgotten thing, when, some days after, lo!
might yet by inflexible firmness, only tempered by that common decency of
moment paused; it almost seemed as though he would have lowered a boat to
moment to interchange the news; and, perhaps, sitting down for a while and
more friendly and sociable contact.  And especially would this seem to be a
more whales than all the English, collectively, in ten years.  But this is a
morning, perched on our stays, rows of these birds were seen; and spite of
mundane soul were in anguish and remorse for the long sin and suffering it had
murmured Ahab, gazing over into the water.  There seemed but little in the
needs a definition, and should be incorporated into the Lexicon.  With that
no words were spoken; and the silent ship, as if manned by painted sailors in
not create any unsubduable excitement in the forecastle.  But be all this as
nothing without corresponding breadth.  Merely make a spread angle of two
now far remote vessel; and some of those letters may be for the people of the
oarsman's hair, and hold on there like grim death.
observed in him, and particularly his solicitude in having an extra coat of
occasion, and the captain, having no
occasionally put, and which are duly answered at the time.  Some two years
occasions --if so it had been that, by the process of hailing, he had obtained
of Moby Dick.  To some the general interest in the White Whale was now wildly
of all that.  Now, gentlemen, in square-sail brigs and three-masted ships,
of an audacious mariner as any.  And for Radney, though in his infancy he may
of cruising.  Standing in iron hoops nailed to the mast, they swayed and
of each other's villanous likenesses.  But look at the godly, honest,
of his own touching all that matter.  Until Cabaco's published discovery, the
of the boat will often go far to topple him, because length of foundation is
of the chase, for the sake of being near the scene of action and giving his
of these moonlight nights, it was his wont to mount to the main-mast head,
of yore; for long allured by the perfidious silences that before had attended
often before have noticed a similar sight, yet, to any monomaniac man, the
oftentimes pass on without so much as a single word of recognition, mutually
old man had ever before evinced.  But turning to the steersman, who thus far
on board instinctively desired a lowering.  Walking the deck with quick,
on board; at any rate, she will be sure to let her have some papers of a date
or starlight, as the case might be; disappearing again for one whole day, or
orders in person, yet for Captain Ahab to have a boat actually apportioned to
other at the ends of the earth --off lone Fanning's Island, or the far away
other; and consequently, have all sorts of dear domestic things to talk
our hootings, for a long time obstinately clung to the hemp, as though they
overbearing of Radney, the mate, a Vineyarder, and the bitterly provoked
part of the ship by the perilous seas that burstingly broke over its bows,
particular preparative heedfulness in Ahab must only be with a view to the
perch at the fore-mast-head, I had a good view of that sight so remarkable to
perhaps, have boarded her --judging by his subsequent conduct on similar
periodically relieved at them, those six-and-thirty men of his could easily
place among the crew, though still as it were somehow distinct from them,
place to sit in, is pulled off to his visit all standing like a pine tree.
pockets; but perhaps being generally very large, heavy hands, he carries them
pointed pressure of his ivory limb; and also the anxiety he evinced in
poles, and you cannot stand them up.  Then, again, it would never do in plain
potency from the contrasting serenity of the weather, in which, beneath all
prior to my first learning the events which I am about rehearsing to you,
proceed to put on lasting record.  For my humor's sake, I shall preserve the
profession of theirs has any peculiar glory about it.  It sometimes ends in
professions have their own little peculiarities of detail; so has the whale
property of three confederate white seamen of that ship, one of whom, it
proud feelings; but whereto does all that circumnavigation conduct?  Only
quarrel as the backwoods seaman, fresh from the latitudes of buck-horn
rather heavy weather, the ship still continued her cruisings, the mariners
reached the ears of Captain Ahab or his mates.  For that secret part of the
real phantoms, and asked of the sun and the moon why they were created and to
reserved, and your Yankee, he does not fancy that sort of thing in anybody
resting in concert: then, how much more natural that upon the illimitable Pine
rig.  As for Men-of-War, when they chance to meet at sea, they first go
rigging were like the thick branches of trees furred over with hoar-frost.
rigging, and hailed the mortal crew.  There she blows!  Had the trump of
rimmed varieties of races and of climes.  They contain round archipelagoes of
romantic isles, even as the Polynesian waters do; in large part, are shored
round the world!  Round the world!  There is much in that sound to inspire
round upon us, and rend us at last in the remotest and most savage seas.
sail westward from the eaves of this good Golden Inn.  She was somewhere to
sail, stood away for the nearest harbor among the islands, there to have
sail, the ivory Pequod had slowly swept across four several cruising-grounds;
sailors had little foreseen it, though to be sure when, after being a little
sailors, but likewise with all the peculiar congenialities arising from a
sea, the whalers have most reason to be sociable --and they are so.  Whereas,
seemed shuddering fins, and ranged themselves fore and aft with the
seems, communicated it to Tashtego with Romish injunctions of secresy, but
seethings, made what seemed a silvery silence, not a solitude: on such a
self-same whale; and that whale, Moby Dick.  For a time, there reigned, too, a
sheathing in the bottom of the boat, as if to make it better withstand the
ships themselves often pick up such queer castaway creatures found tossing
shudder, sleeping in this gale, still thou steadfastly eyest thy purpose.
side-lunging strides, Ahab commanded the t'gallant sails and royals to be set,
sideways by settling down on his stretched legs; but a sudden, violent pitch
sight of the world's riveted eyes, it would never do, I say, for this
silent night a silvery jet was seen far in advance of the white bubbles at
silver chips, the foam-flakes flew over her bulwarks; then all this desolate
skeleton of a stranded walrus.  All down her sides, this spectral appearance
so far as to have some sort of a half-hinted influence; Heaven knows, but
so that the closed eyes were pointed towards the needle of the tell-tale that
some days before had been placidly swimming by our side, darted away with what
some merchant ships crossing each other's wake in the mid-Atlantic, will
some time or other, swims before all human hearts; while chasing such over
somehow fell from his hand into the sea; and the wind now rising amain, he
sometimes cushioned seat there, and often steers himself with a pretty little
sort of shyness between them; for your Englishman is rather
stand on.  but what is a gam?  you might wear out your index-finger running
steamer, and the beech canoe; they are swept by Borean and dismasting blasts
stood in a line along the bulwarks in the waist; and the better to guard
storms.  But even had this not been the case, he would not after all,
story was unknown to the captain of the Town-Ho himself.  It was the private
straddling captain to be seen steadying himself the slightest particle by
straightened it a little there; all these things, I say, had awakened much
stranger's flanks.  Though in the course of his continual voyagings Ahab must
stroke of his dead limb sounded like a coffin-tap.  On life and death this old
style in which I once narrated it at Lima, to a lounging circle of my Spanish
such generous conceits never entered the heads of the owners of the Pequod.
superior altitude.  Hence, I conclude, that in boasting himself to be high
supplied with five extra men, as that same boat's crew, he well knew that
swung from a beam in the ceiling.  Terrible old man!  thought Starbuck with a
swung over a fathomless sea;
terror; rather pleasure.  for though it was a most unwonted hour, yet so
that every individual moment, indeed, then comprises a peril; under these
that night, you would have thought that in him also two different things were
that night.  Every sailor swore he saw it once, but not a second time.  This
that off the Azores; off the Cape de Verdes; on the Plate (so called),
that we left behind secure, were all the time before us.  Were this world an
that whenever and wherever descried; at however remote times, or in however
the Cape winds began howling around us, and we rose and fell upon the long,
the Pequod were evincing their observance of this ominous incident at the
the Pequod who came to the full knowledge of it, and by such a strange
the air came so nigh to each other that we might almost have leaped from the
the blast, and gored the dark waves in her madness, till, like showers of
the bow.  Lit up by the moon, it looked celestial; seemed some plumed and
the cleat, and with the carpenter's chisel gouged out a little here and
the following night Tashtego rambled in his sleep, and revealed so much of it
the gaunt pines stand like serried lines of kings in Gothic genealogies;
the hollows of so many sails, made the buoyant, hovering deck to feel like
the horizontal piece in the boat's bow for bracing the knee against in
the immense projecting steering oar hitting him now and then in the small of
the issue of the gale.  Then Captain and crew become practical fatalists.
the leak not being then considered at all dangerous, though, indeed, they
the life of them, cannot well avoid a mutual salutation; and stopping for a
the northward of the Line.  One morning upon handling the pumps, according to
the ocean prevailed; still in silence the men swung in the bowlines; still
the pallid bulwarks, was in the act of putting his trumpet to his mouth, it
the secret among themselves so that it never transpired abaft the Pequod's
the side and step down into the cabin to chat with the captain, and it would
the waves rolled by like scrolls of silver; and, by their soft, suffusing
the whaleboats for service; when some time after this Ahab was now and then
there for ballast.  Nevertheless there have occurred instances, well
these ships should not only interchange hails, but come into still closer,
they exchange visits by boats' crews: the two captains remaining, for the
things invested the Pequod, were there wanting some of the seamen who swore
this round globe, they either lead us on in barren mazes or midway leave us
this time three years, if I am not at home, tell them to address them to-----
those same woods harboring wild Afric beasts of prey, and silken creatures
those so called judgments of God which at times are said to overtake some men.
though assuming for the time the almost continual command of the drenched and
thought not.  Ahab well knew that although his friends at home would think
through numberless perils to the very point whence we started, where those
through such a string of silly bowings and scrapings, such a ducking of
through these latter waters that one serene and moonlight night, when all
thunderings of naval victories; at intervals, they yield their beaches to
thus completely wedged before and behind, and can only expand himself
tides were a conscience; and the great
tie he soon evinced himself to be linked with Ahab's peculiar fortunes; nay,
time, on board of one ship, and the two chief mates on the other.  There is
to drive yawingly to some horizontal goal.  And had you watched Ahab's face
to involve with the whale a certain wondrous, inverted visitation of one of
to mark how the
traits; and this Lakeman, a mariner, who though a sort of devil indeed,
transformed into those fowls and these fish, seemed condemned to swim on
travellers than in any other part.  It was not very long after speaking the
treacherously beckoning us on and on, in order that the monster might turn
troubled seas that are there; when the ivory-tusked Pequod sharply bowed to
two days, or three; and somehow seeming at every distinct repetition to be
ultimate chase of Moby Dick; for he had already revealed his intention to
unaccountable odds and ends of strange nations come up from the unknown nooks
uncommon elevation, indeed; but only at the gallows.  And besides, when a
unostentatious, hospitable, sociable, free-and-easy whaler!  What does the
unstaked, watery locality, southerly from St.  Helena.  It was while gliding
unusual hours; his turban and the moon, companions in one sky.  But when,
up and down the columns of dictionaries, and never find the word.  Dr.
us, we found ourselves launched into this tormented sea, where guilty beings
us; while thick in our rear flew the inscrutable sea-ravens.  And every
vacuity of life went away, but gave place to sights more dismal than before.
vengeance of Steelkilt, a Lakeman and desperado from Buffalo.  "Lakeman!
veriest trifles capriciously carry meanings.  Swim away from me, do ye?
view, let me learnedly define it.  Gam.  Noun --A social meeting of two (or more)
visible world resting on him from the sides of the two ships, this standing
voice was heard announcing that silvery, moon-lit jet, every reclining
warring.  While his one live leg made lively echoes along the deck, every
was traced with long channels of reddened rust, while all her spars and her
well nigh the whole of this passage being attended by very prosperous breezes,
well-nigh as large and stout as any that ever sailed out of your old Callao to
were on the closer terms with me; and hence the interluding questions they
whale-boat never admits of any such effeminacy; and therefore as in gamming a
whaler do when she meets another whaler in any sort of decent weather?  She
what end; when though, according to genesis, the angels indeed consorted
what may be called the secret part of the tragedy about to be narrated, never
whelmed.
while out of port, all hands had concluded the customary business of fitting
wholly by Polynesians.  In the short gam that ensued she gave us strong news
whose exported furs give robes to Tartar Emperors; they mirror the paved
wild barbarians, whose red painted faces flash from out their peltry wigwams;
will hold true concerning whaling vessels crossing each other's track on the
wind.  The strange, upheaving, lifting tendency of the taffrail breeze filling
windward, while an occasional squall of sleet or snow would all but congeal
with the daughters of men, the devils also, add the uncanonical Rabbins,
without the occurrence of the least fatality, had it not been for the brutal
without uttering a single sound; when, after all this silence, his unearthly
wordless ahab stood up to the blast.  Even when wearied nature seemed
words, but the tone conveyed more of deep helpless sadness than the insane
working at the pumps at wide and easy intervals; but no good luck came; more
world!  Tell them to address all future letters to the Pacific ocean!  and
would at times be descried.  During all this blackness of the elements, Ahab,
would be hard to say, seeing that the Yankees in one day, collectively, kill
yet that hair-turbaned Fedallah remained a muffled mystery to the last.
