





















     A penny roll would choke him; his swallow is so very small.  But, to this,
     Being horizontal in its position, the Leviathan's tail acts in a different
     Bishop Jebb's anticipative answer is ready.  It is not necessary, hints the
     I had the curiosity to place a mirror before me; and ere long saw reflected
     No ribs of man or boat can withstand it.  Your only salvation lies in eluding
     Other poets have warbled the praises of
     Reference was made to
     That for six thousand years --and no one
     To make them run easily and swiftly,
     and as that long canal --like the grand Erie Canal --is furnished with a sort
     and for several feet laid along, horizontally, just beneath the upper
     and, I would add, possibly called The Whale, as some craft are nowadays
     breach --somewhere else to be described --this peaking of the whale's flukes is
     but it seems to me, that in the whale the sense of touch is concentrated in
     but the Vedas, or mystical books, whose perusal would seem to have been
     or be content to lose him.  But to haul the boat up to his flank was
     or how do you know that they are not those identical drops superficially
     or whether that exhaled breath is mixed with water taken in at the mouth,
     strips off a frock, and the hole is stopped.  Third: I cannot demonstrate it,
     to hold this so-called dragon no other than the great Leviathan himself.  In
     whether the spout of the Sperm Whale is the mere vapor of the exhaled breath,
),
--glorified by a rainbow, as if Heaven itself had put its seal upon his
--upper, middle, and lower.  The fibres in the upper and lower layers, are long
.. < chapter lxxxiii 26  JONAH HISTORICALLY REGARDED >
.. < chapter lxxxiv 2  PITCHPOLING >
.. < chapter lxxxv 11  THE FOUNTAIN >
.. < chapter lxxxvi 16  THE TAIL >
.. <p 362 >
.. <p 362 >
.. <p 363 >
.. <p 364 >
.. <p 365 >
.. <p 366 >
.. <p 367 >
.. <p 367 >
.. <p 368 >
.. <p 369 >
.. <p 370 >
.. <p 371 >
.. <p 372 >
.. <p 372 >
.. <p 373 >
.. <p 374 >
.. <p 375 >
.. <p 376 >
.. <p 377 >
As a general thing, therefore, you must first get fast to a whale, before any
Besides, it has been divined by other continental commentators, that when
Bishop, that we consider Jonah as tombed in the whale's belly, but as
But as if this vast local power in the tendinous tail were not enough, the
But owing to the mystery of the spout --whether it be water or whether it be
Crockett and Kit Carson --that brawny doer of rejoicing good deeds, was
Every one knows that by the peculiar cunning of their gills, the finny tribes
Furthermore, as his windpipe solely opens into the tube of his spouting canal,
Good Hope at so early a day would wrest the honor of the discovery of that
Hercules and the whale, and Arion and the dolphin;
Hercules, Jonah, and Vishnoo!  there's a member-roll for you!  What club but
Jonah merely meant a life-preserver --an inflated bag of wind --which the
Jonah was thrown overboard from the Joppa ship, he straightway effected his
Leviathan's tail, his trunk is but the stalk of a lily.  The most direful
Lord; --Vishnoo, who, by the first of his ten earthly incarnations, has for
Mosque built in honor of Jonah, in which mosque was a miraculous lamp that
Nevertheless, the boats pursued, and Stubb's was foremost.  By great exertion,
Nor do heroes, saints, demigods, and prophets alone comprise the whole roll of
Now, if after he fetches a few
Oh!  happy that the world is such an excellent listener!  Now, the spouting
Portuguese Catholic priest, this very idea of Jonah's going to Nineveh via
Possibly, too, Jonah might have ensconced himself in a hollow tooth; but, on
Russian campaign turned their dead horses into tents, and crawled into them.
Sag-Harbor (he went by that name) urged for his want of faith in this matter
Sag-Harbor, therefore, seems worsted all round.  But he had still another
Sperm Whale's tail to begin at that point of the trunk where it tapers to
Tashtego at last succeeded in planting one iron; but the stricken whale,
Third, in sweeping; Fourth, in lobtailing; Fifth, in peaking flukes.  First:
Thou shalt see my back parts, my tail, he seems to say, but my face shall not
Tigris, very much more than three days' journey across from the nearest point
What tenderness there is in that preliminary touch!  Had this tail any
Whether to admit Hercules among us or not, concerning this I long remained
You would almost think a great gun had been discharged; and if you noticed
a Nantucketer with disdain, since even in our woollen frocks and tarred
a cracked rib or a dashed plank or two, a sort of stitch in the side, is
a large herd of whales in the east, all heading towards the sun, and for a
a moment, till they downwards shoot out of view.  Excepting the sublime
abominable, devilish rebellion against the reverend clergy.  For by a
about the girth of a man, it comprises upon its upper surface alone, an area
accidentally takes in water.  But the Sperm Whale's food is far beneath the
accommodate a couple of whist tables, and comfortably seat all the players.
act of thinking deep thoughts.  While composing a little treatise on Eternity,
action of sweeping, when in maidenly gentleness the whale with a certain soft
actually harpooned his fish, unless, indeed, from the inside.  Nevertheless,
after six cups of hot tea in my thin shingled attic, of an August noon; this
again, he will be sure to have his seventy breaths over again, to a minute.
ago, an English traveller in old Harris's Voyages, speaks of a Turkish
air; then smiting the surface, the thunderous concussion resounds for miles.
alights; less celestial, I celebrate a tail.  Reckoning the largest sized
all answers to his nose is that identical spout-hole; and being so clogged
all beings.  For according to King Juba, the military elephants of antiquity
all his other unmolested risings.  Say he stays eleven minutes, and jets
all.
almost stand in it, and yet be undecided as to what it is precisely.  The
along its length to see if it be exactly straight, Stubb whistlingly gathers
alternating with the stone in those wonderful relics of the antique, and
and discharged through the spiracle.  It is certain that the mouth indirectly
and horizontal; those of the middle one, very short, and running crosswise
and never will.  But if I know not even the tail of this whale, how
and so on, there always goes up a certain semi-visible steam, while in the
and the whale's gastric juices.  But this objection likewise falls to the
and the whale; and vice versa; certainly they are very similar.  If I claim
and we'd drink round it!  Yea, verily, hearts alive, we'd brew choice punch
and yet their doubting those traditions did not make those traditions one
another passage up the Persian Gulf and Red Sea, such a supposition would
any creature breathing is only a function indispensable to vitality, inasmuch
any profound being that had anything to say to this
any whale to swim in.  Besides, this idea of Jonah's weathering the Cape of
architects, these Vedas were lying at the bottom of the waters; so Vishnoo
are hostile; that oil is a sliding thing, and that the object in view is to
are told, will he finally go down to stay out his full term below.  Remark,
as it withdraws from the air a certain element, which being subsequently
assailant.  Dissect him how I may, then, I but go skin deep; I know him not,
balls.  The more I consider this mighty tail, the more do I deplore my
be in, its flexions are invariably marked by exceeding grace.  Therein no
be, and yet, that down to this blessed minute (fifteen and a quarter
became incarnate in a whale, and sounding down in him to the uttermost
being, inasmuch as it is an undisputed fact that he is never found on
best contradictory authorities, this Grecian story of Hercules and the whale
between the outside layers.  This triune structure, as much as anything else,
blood in a man could be aerated with one breath, he might then seal up his
blow from the elephant's trunk were as the playful tap of a fan, compared with
boat, and one morning not long after the German ship Jungfrau disappeared,
bottom.  Nor is it to be doubted that as such a procedure can do no harm, it
bottomless profundities the gigantic tail seems spasmodically snatching at the
breath, or so much as in any way inhaling a particle of air; for, remember,
breathe he must, or die he will.  But the Sperm Whale only breathes about one
breathe through his mouth, for, in his ordinary attitude, the Sperm Whale's
breaths you alarm him, so that he sounds, he will be always dodging up again
bright steel spans the foaming distance, and quivers in the life spot of the
brought into contact with the blood imparts to the blood its vivifying
burnt without any oil.
but doubts or denials, few along with them, have intuitions.  Doubts of all
canal of the Sperm Whale, chiefly intended as it is for the conveyance of air,
central body of it is hidden in the snowy sparkling mist enveloping it; and
centuries back, thousands of hunters should have been close by the fountain
chin.  Next moment with a rapid, nameless impulse, in a superb lofty arch the
christened the Shark, the Gull, the Eagle.  Nor have there been wanting
communicates with the spouting canal; but it cannot be proved that this is
conclusion I am impelled, by considerations touching the great inherent
corpse of Goethe, he was overwhelmed with the massive chest of the man, that
cripple the graceful flexion of its motions; where infantileness of ease
crossing the waterless desert carries a surplus supply of drink for future use
daintiness of the elephant's trunk.  This delicacy is chiefly evinced in the
deep, as with so many sprinkling or mistifying pots; and that for some
defined than in the crescentic borders of these flukes.  At its utmost
deliberate coolness and equanimity in the direst emergencies, was specially
depths, rescued the sacred volumes.  Was not this Vishnoo a whaleman, then?
descending for good?  How obvious is it, too, that this necessity for the
desert; even then, the whale always carries a small basin of water on his
devoutly believe in the historical story of Jonah.  And some three centuries
dignity and sublimity of the Sperm Whale; I account him no common, shallow
diligently seeking to insure a crop of hair from the craft's bald keel.  He
does he want of them?  No roses, no violets, no Cologne-water in the sea.
dubious: for though according to the Greek mythologies, that antique
elephant, I then testified of the whale, pronouncing him the most devout of
elephant, so far as some aspects of the tail of the one and the trunk of the
embodiment of adoration of the gods was never beheld, even in Persia, the
endangered prophet swam to, and so was saved from a watery doom.  Poor
enough in the good Bishop.  For truly, the Right Whale's mouth would
equality, much less the creatures to which they respectively belong.  For as
escape to another vessel near by, some vessel with a whale for a figure-head;
especially if it descend to its mark, the stroke is then simply irresistible.
even as a man who rides a horse is called a horseman?  Perseus, St.  George,
ever set apart and sanctified the whale.  When Brahma, or the God of Gods,
evinced his foolish pride of reason --a thing still more reprehensible in
exercises boasts nothing like it.  It is only indispensable with an inveterate
expansion in the full grown whale, the tail will considerably exceed twenty
extensive herd, so remarkable, occasionally, are these mystic gestures,
fact, placed before the strict and piercing truth, this whole story will
fairy's arm can transcend it.  Five great motions are peculiar to it.  First,
fare like that fish, flesh, and fowl idol of the Philistines, Dagon by name;
fathoms beneath the sunlight.  Not so much thy skill, then, O hunter, as the
feet across.  The entire member seems a dense webbed bed of welded
fibres and filaments, which passing on either side the loins and running down
fleetness.  Such unintermitted strainings upon the planted iron must sooner or
floating posture of the leviathan the flukes lie considerably below the level
for his periodical visits to the upper world.  But he cannot in any degree
for questioning the Hebrew story was this: --He had one of those quaint
for the purpose of discharging water through the spiracle.  Because the
forty feet ahead.  Handling the long lance lightly, glancing twice or thrice
from the Shaster, which gives us the dread Vishnoo, one of the three persons
general body, full of strangeness, and unaccountable to his most experienced
generally the most serious result.  These submerged side blows are so often
grasp, leaving the rest unobstructed.  Then holding the lance full before
great gods themselves.  That wondrous oriental story is now to be rehearsed
great headland from Bartholomew Diaz, its reputed discoverer, and so make
great necessities that strike the victory to thee!  In man, breathing is
greatest necessity for so doing would seem to be, when in feeding he
ground, because a German exegetist supposes that Jonah must have taken refuge
happen, your skin will feverishly smart, from the acridness of the thing so
harmony, but it often bestows it; and in everything imposingly beautiful,
harpoon as compared with the lance, which in effect become serious drawbacks.
harpoon, and also of a lighter material--pine.  It is furnished with a small
have ever had to do with a whale like their great patron), let them never eye
he has no gills.  How is this?  Between his ribs and on each side of his spine
he is supplied with a remarkable involved Cretan labyrinth of vermicelli-like
he may be deemed a sort of involuntary whaleman; at any rate the whale caught
head, as under a blazing sun you will sometimes see a cavity in a rock filled
head.  The invariable moisture of my hair, while plunged in deep thought,
heard it said, and I do not much doubt it, that if the jet is fairly spouted
heavenly ray.  And for this I thank God; for all have doubts; many deny;
here, that though the harpoon may be pitchpoled in the same way with the
highest heaven.  So in dreams, have I seen majestic Satan thrusting forth his
him very closely, and time him with your watch, you will find that when
him, if he did not the whale.  I claim him for one of our clan.  But, by the
him, seeing that he had but little learning except what he had picked up from
his full hour and more (when at the bottom) without drawing a single
his nose.  But then again, what has the whale to say?  Seldom have I known
his power in his play.  The broad palms of his tail are flirted high into the
his spiracle alone; and this is on the top of his head.  If I say, that in
his tail; for I have heard of yet another elephant, that when wounded in
his waistband's middle, he levels it at the whale; when, covering him with
home of the fire worshippers.  As Ptolemy Philopater testified of the African
hook or by net could this vast leviathan be caught, when sailing a thousand
how can you certainly tell whether any water falls from it, when, always,
however, that in different individuals these rates are different; but in any
human form, mark what robustness is there.  And whatever they may reveal of
hypothesize, even if we cannot prove and establish.  My hypothesis is this:
imparts power to the tail.  To the student of old Roman walls, the middle
impossible, he swam so fast and furious.  What then remained?  Of all the
in a prodigious commotion, the water cascading all around him.  And if at
in general breathe the air which at all times is combined with the element in
in his conflicts with man, he chiefly and contemptuously uses his tail.  In
in its four supplementary stomachs.  The anatomical fact of this labyrinth
in repeated instances have one after the other hurled entire boats with all
in the floating body of a dead whale -- even as the French soldiers in the
in the godhead of the Hindoos; gives us this divine Vishnoo himself for our
in the spread of his spout-hole there, and from that live punch-bowl quaff
inability to express it.  At times there are gestures in it, which, though
incessantly going on --one breath only serving for two or three pulsations; so
incommunicable contemplations, and that vapor --as you will sometimes see it
incompatible with the sacred legend and the ancientest draughts of the scene,
indispensable to Vishnoo before beginning the creation, and which therefore
insult him by saying, that when he so strangely rumbles, he talks through
into the flukes, insensibly blend with them, and largely contribute to their
into two broad, firm, flat palms or flukes, gradually shoaling away to less
into your eyes, it will blind you.  The wisest thing the investigator can do
involve the complete circumnavigation of all Africa in three days, not to
irradiate vapor.  And so, through all the thick mists of the dim doubts in my
is considered to be derived from the still more ancient Hebrew story of Jonah
is indisputable; and that the supposition founded upon it is reasonable and
is only inflicted by the recoil.  If it be made in the unobstructed air,
is repeated, the spear returning to its master like a greyhound held in
is, nevertheless, that the Sperm Whale has no proper olfactories.  But what
it remain unwarranted by the event.  Towards noon whales were raised; but so
it should still remain a problem, whether these spoutings are, after all,
it, he steadily depresses the butt-end in his hand, thereby elevating the
it; but if it comes sideways through the opposing water, then partly owing
kitten-like, he plays on the ocean as if it were a hearth.  But still you see
knows how many millions of ages before --the great whales should have been
lance, yet it is seldom done; and when done, is still less frequently
later inevitably extract it.  It became imperative to lance the flying whale,
layer will furnish a curious parallel to the thin course of tiles always
leaping motion to the monster when furiously swimming.  His side-fins only
learned exegetists who have opined that the whale mentioned in the book of
lodged in the spout-hole fissure, which is countersunk into the summit of the
make the boat slide bravely.  Queequeg believed strongly in anointing his
makes neither believer nor infidel, but makes a man who regards them both
manner from the tails of all other sea creatures.  It never wriggles.  In man
mast-head of my ship during a sunrise that crimsoned sky and sea, I once saw
may possibly be of no contemptible advantage; considering that oil and water
might have carried him round by the way of the Cape of Good Hope.  But not to
might; so that in the tail the confluent measureless force of the whole
mind, divine intuitions now and then shoot, enkindling my fog with a
minutes past one o'clock P. M.  of this sixteenth day of December, A. D.
miracle.  And so it was.  Besides, to this day, the highly enlightened Turks
mixed with water, then I opine we should be furnished with the reason why his
modern history a liar.  But all these foolish arguments of old Sag-Harbor only
moment vibrating in concert with peaked flukes.  As it seemed to me at the
monster, to behold him solemnly sailing through a calm tropical sea; his
more, his windpipe has no connexion with his mouth.  No, he breathes through
mouth is buried at least eight feet beneath the surface; and what is still
much like a gas-pipe laid down in a city on one side of a street.  But the
must have contained something in the shape of practical hints to young
must run wine to-day!  Would now, it were old Orleans whiskey, or old Ohio,
none?
nosegays to damsels, and then caressed their zones.  On more accounts than
nostrils and not fetch another for a considerable time.  That is to say, he
not the knights of that honorable company (none of whom, I venture to say,
obstinacy of that leviathan in having his spoutings out, as the fishermen
of at least fifty square feet.  The compact round body of its root expands
of his back, they are then completely out of sight beneath the surface; but
of locks (that open and shut) for the downward retention of air or the
of the Mediterranean coast.  How is that?  But was there no other way for the
of the prophet, was something obscurely in reference to his incarcerated body
of the whale, watching these sprinklings and spoutings --that all this should
often hailed the morning with their trunks uplifted in the profoundest
old Monongahela!  Then, Tashtego, lad, I'd have ye hold a canakin to the jet,
old times, we find the headwaters of our fraternity in nothing short of the
old-fashioned Bibles, embellished with curious, unscientific plates; one of
once raise its head above the surface.  But owing to his marked internal
one they are alike.  Now, why should the whale thus insist upon having his
one, a pity it is that the whale does not possess this prehensile virtue in
only live by inhaling the disengaged air in the open atmosphere.  Wherefore
only true with respect to a species of the Leviathan (the Right Whale, and
or fish, wriggling is a sign of inferiority.  To the whale, his tail is the
or twelve feet in length; the staff is much slighter than that of the
or unspeakable
other are concerned, should not tend to place those two opposite organs on an
our order.  Our grand master is still to be named; for like royal kings of
out from the orthodox pagans of their times, equally doubted the story of
over seem bursting from the marble in the carved Hercules, and its charm
overlap, then sideways recede from each other like wings, leaving a wide
palms of his hands fell off from him, and only the stump or fishy part of him
peering into it, and putting his face in it.  You cannot go with your pitcher
perhaps the grandest sight to be seen in all animated nature.  Out of the
periodical dissolutions, he gave birth to Vishnoo, to preside over the work;
phrase it.  This is what I mean.  If unmolested, upon rising to the surface,
pictures, in which his idea has been most successfully embodied; these
pictures, so destitute as they are of all brawniness, hint nothing of any
pitchpoling comes into play.  Look now at Stubb; a man who from his humorous,
plain things the knottiest of all.  And as for this whale spout, you might
point till the weapon stands fairly balanced upon his palm, fifteen feet in
ponderous and profound.  And I am convinced that from the heads of all
ponderous profound beings, such as Plato, Pyrrho, the Devil, Jupiter, Dante,
power, but the mere negative, feminine one of submission and endurance,
precipitancy; a disordered flight, as of Cleopatra's barges from Actium.
precisely the case with the whale, who systematically lives, by intervals,
prehensile power, I should straightway bethink me of Darmonodes' elephant
principle, I do not think I shall err; though I may possibly use some
qualified to excel in pitchpoling.  Look at him; he stands upright in the
question returns whether this gas-pipe is also a water-pipe; in other words,
raises our conceit of the mighty, misty
really water, or nothing but vapor --this is surely a noteworthy thing.  Let
reason for his want of faith.  It was this, if I remember right: Jonah was
reasoning on the subject?  Speak out!  You have seen him spout; then declare
received in the fishery, that they are accounted mere child's play.  Some one
remained.  Thus, then, one of our own noble stamp, even a whaleman, is the
rope called a warp, of considerable length, by which it can be hauled back to
running whale; its grand fact and feature is the wonderful distance to which
saith the Shaster, resolved to recreate the world after one of its
say, the skin peeled off from his cheek and arm.  Wherefore, among whalemen,
scenes, it is all in all what mood you are in; if in the Dantean, the devils
sea in a calm, with his elevated hump sun-dried as a dromedary's in the
sea, he carries a surplus stock of vitality in him, just as the camel
sea-horse; bearing all this in mind, it will not appear altogether
sea; and if he feel but a sailor's whisker, woe to that sailor, whiskers and
seas, you find him unbent from the vast corpulence of his dignity, and
second thoughts, the Right Whale is toothless.  Another reason which
seemed as a Roman triumphal arch.  When Angelo paints even God the Father in
seemed to be working in obedience to some particular presentiment.  Nor did
seems an additional argument for the above supposition.  And how nobly it
sense of smell seems obliterated in him; for the only thing about him that at
serve to steer by.  Second: It is a little significant, that while one sperm
seventh or Sunday of his time.  It has been said that the whale only breathes
seventy times, that is, respires seventy breaths; then whenever he rises
should be enrolled in the most noble order of St.  George.  And therefore, let
silence.  The chance comparison in this chapter, between the whale and the
sinews; but cut into it, and you find that three distinct strata compose it:
skilful leash.  The agonized whale goes into his flurry; the tow-line is
slackened, and the pitchpoler dropping astern, folds his hands, and mutely
slight contact with the outer, vapory shreds of the jet, which will often
slowness moves his immense flukes from side to side upon the surface of the
sole means of propulsion.  Scroll-wise coiled forwards beneath the body, and
some Nantucketers rather distrust this historical story of Jonah and the
soon as the ship sailed down to them, they turned and fled with swift
soundings, or near shores; all other whales sometimes are.  He is both
speak of the Tigris waters, near the site of Nineveh, being too shallow for
speak of the passage through the whole length of the Mediterranean, and
spigot out of him!  cries Stubb. 'Tis July's immortal Fourth; all fountains
spout, whether with some scientific object in view, or otherwise, I cannot
spouting all over the sea, and sprinkling and mistifying the gardens of the
spoutings out, unless it be to replenish his reservoir of air, ere
strength has much to do with the magic.  Take away the tied tendons that all
striking at a boat, he swiftly curves away his flukes from it, and the blow
structure which gives him regular lungs, like a human being's, the whale can
subtleties, to which the veteran whaleman is so often forced, none exceed
successful, on account of the greater weight and inferior length of the
such times you should think that you really perceived drops of moisture in
superfluous scientific words.  Assume it, and it follows that if all the
surface of his head, and a little to one side; this curious canal is very
surface, and there he cannot spout even if he would.  Besides, if you regard
swallowed by the whale in the Mediterranean Sea, and after three days he was
swallowed down and thrown up by a whale; still, whether that strictly makes a
sword, in all its
symbols; that the whale, indeed, by these methods intelligently conversed
teachings.  Such is the subtle elasticity of the organ I treat of, that
temporarily lodged in some part of his mouth.  And this seems reasonable
than an inch in thickness.  At the crotch or junction, these flukes slightly
that I have heard hunters who have declared them akin to Free-Mason signs and
that fine manoeuvre with the lance called pitchpoling.  Small sword, or broad
that so frequented the flower-market, and with low salutations presented
that the spout is nothing but mist.  And besides other reasons, to this
that whatever other business he has to attend to, waking or sleeping,
the Cape of Good Hope was advanced as a signal magnification of the general
the Sperm Whale will continue there for a period of time exactly uniform with
the air.  He minds you somewhat of a juggler, balancing a long staff on his
the animal ridden by St.  George might have been only a large seal, or
the axles of carriages are anointed; and for much the same purpose, some
the demigod then, why not the prophet?
the divine love in the Son, the soft, curled, hermaphroditical Italian
the fight, curved round his trunk and extracted the dart.  Fourth: Stealing
the hand after darting.  But before going further, it is important to mention
the historical story of Jonah and the whale in the preceding chapter.  Now
the light wreath of vapor from the spiracle at his other extremity, you would
the living stuff!  Again and again to such gamesome talk, the dexterous dart
the long lance is accurately darted from a violently rocking, jerking boat,
the measureless crush and crash of the sperm whale's ponderous flukes, which
the mightiest elephant is but a terrier to Leviathan, so, compared with
the necessity
the ordinary periods of respiration.  But why pester one with all this
the soft eye of the antelope, and the lovely plumage of the bird that never
the spout is deemed poisonous; they try to evade it.  Another thing; I have
the spout, how do you know that they are not merely condensed from its vapor;
the sun and the sea.  I say it only shows his foolish, impious pride, and
the tail; for in this respect there is a delicacy in it only equalled by the
the varieties of that order), concerning which the fishermen have this saying,
the whaleman's can head off like that?
their most appalling beauty from it.  Real strength never impairs beauty or
their oars and crews into the air, very much as an Indian juggler tosses his
then rapidly sprung backwards, it is this which gives that singular darting,
then, it seems to me, is to let this deadly spout alone.  Still, we can
there, a curious involved worming and undulation in the atmosphere over my
they would well grace the hand of man, remain wholly inexplicable.  In an
things earthly, and intuitions of some things heavenly; this combination
think that that was the smoke from the touch-hole.  Fifth: As in the ordinary
thirty feet of his body are tossed erect in the air, and so remain vibrating
thoughts.  For, d'ye see, rainbows do not visit the clear air; they only
through his spout-hole; if it could truthfully be added that his spouts are
time, such a grand
to make good his regular allowance of air.  And not till those seventy breaths
to the light buoyancy of the whaleboat, and the elasticity of its materials,
to this fountain and fill it, and bring it away.  For even when coming into
took more than customary pains in that occupation; crawling under its bottom,
tormented colossal claw from the flame Baltic of Hell.  But in gazing at such
tossed bow of the flying boat; wrapt in fleecy foam, the towing whale is
touching it.  And I know one, who coming into still closer contact with the
touching the precise nature of the whale spout.  It will not do for him to be
trowsers we are much better entitled to st.  george's decoration than they.
true, seems the more cogent to me, when I consider the otherwise inexplicable
tutelary guardian of England; and by good rights, we harpooneers of Nantucket
unawares upon the whale in the fancied security of the middle of solitary
under extreme headway.  Steel and wood included, the entire spear is some ten
understand his head?  much more, how comprehend his face, when face he has
undulates through a Titanism of power.  On the contrary, those motions derive
unknown to artists; and considering that as in Perseus' case, St.  George's
unmolested, there is an undeviating rhyme between the periods of his jets and
up the coil of the warp in one hand, so as to secure its free end in his
up with rain.  Nor is it at all prudent for the hunter to be over curious
upward exclusion of water, therefore the whale has no voice; unless you
us, then, look at this matter, along with some interesting items contingent.
vacancy between.  In no living thing are the lines of beauty more exquisitely
vapor --no absolute certainty can as yet be arrived at on this head.  Sure it
vast, mild head overhung by a canopy of vapor, engendered by his
vessels, which vessels, when he quits the surface, are completely distended
vomited up somewhere within three days' journey of Nineveh, a city on the
watches the monster die.
were the thing to do it.  Nor does this --its amazing strength, at all tend to
whale might have crawled up out of the sea on the beach; and considering that
whale only fights another sperm whale with his head and jaw, nevertheless,
whale seems concentrated to a point.  Could annihilation occur to matter, this
whale to land the prophet within that short distance of Nineveh?  Yes.  He
whale's head?  For even when tranquilly swimming through the mid-day
whale's rising exposes him to all the fatal hazards of the chase.  For not by
whale.  But then there were some sceptical Greeks and Romans, who, standing
whale.  Instead of sparkling water, he now spouts red blood.  That drove the
whaleman of him, that might be mooted.  It nowhere appears that he ever
whalers perform an analogous operation upon their boat; they grease the
what the spout is; can you not tell water from air?  My dear sir, in this
when he is about to plunge into the deeps, his entire flukes with at least
when used as a fin for progression; Second, when used as a mace in battle;
when you are close enough to a whale to get a close view of his spout, he is
where it hung over the side, and rubbing in the unctuousness as though
whether wielded in sport, or in earnest, or in anger, whatever be the mood it
which on all hands it is conceded, form the peculiar practical virtues of his
which represented Jonah's whale with two spouts in his head --a peculiarity
which they swim, hence, a herring or a cod might live a century, and never
which undoubtedly contribute so much to the great strength of the masonry.
whit the less facts, for all that.  One old Sag-Harbor whaleman's chief reason
who being planted before the ark of Israel, his horse's head and both the
whole bulk of the leviathan is knit over with a warp and woof of muscular
will occur to you; if in that of Isaiah, the archangels.  Standing at the
with equal eye.
with oxygenated blood.  So that for an hour or more, a thousand fathoms in the
with the world.  Nor are there wanting other motions of the whale in his
with two elements, it could not be expected to have the power of smelling.
without at all sounding, still continued his horizontal flight, with added
wondrous devices and dexterities, the sleights of hand and countless
world it is not so easy to settle these plain things.  I have ever found your
world, unless forced to stammer out something by way of getting a living.
would be gone.  As devout Eckerman lifted the linen sheet from the naked
would then live without breathing.  Anomalous as it may seem, this is
