
























    
     According to usage they
     Be it said, that in this vocation of whaling, sinecures are unknown;
     But you must look at this matter in every light.  Though so short a period
     Either do that, sir, or waste in one day more oil than we may make good in a
     Hist, then.  How dost thou know that some entire, living, thinking thing may
     Seat thyself sultanically among the
     The precipitating manner in which Captain
     Upon searching, it was found
     What will the owners say, sir?  Let the owners stand on Nantucket beach and
     and so remorseless a havoc; whether he must not at last be exterminated from
     and trappers of the West, when the far west (in whose sunset suns still
     both the ancestry and posterity of Grief go further than the ancestry and
     buckskin legs and calves of legs I've seen in shop windows wouldn't compare
     but, besides the application to him of the generic remark above, this
     captain ahab mistakes; it is I. The oil in the hold is leaking, sir.  We
     during the midnight watch on the bearded forecastle of Noah's ark.  Was it
     elephants;
     his work).  Well, well, well!  Stubb knows him best of all, and Stubb
     mortal miseries shall still fertilely beget to themselves an eternally
     multum in parvo, Sheffield contrivances, assuming the exterior -- though a
     slim, sure enough!  Now, for most folks one pair of legs lasts a lifetime,
     the carpenter makes a pagoda-looking cage for it.  An oarsman sprains his
     there to a hair, do I. Is't a riddle?  I should humbly call it a poser, sir.
     which have now been hunted for thousands of years, by Semiramis, by Porus,
'Tis but indifferent architecture to make a blind dome; here's one.  No, no,
( sneezes) there's no knee-joint to make; that might puzzle a little; but a
( sneezes)--yes it's ( sneezes)--bless my soul, it won't let me speak!  This is
( sneezes).  Come, come, you old Smut, there, bear a hand, and let's have
(Carpenter standing before his vice-bench, and by the light of two lanterns
(turns to go).  Oh, Life!  Here I am, proud as Greek god, and yet standing
--On deck!  Nay, sir, not yet; I do entreat.  And I do dare, sir --to be
--oh!  ah! --I guess so; so; --yes, yes --oh dear!  Look ye, carpenter, I dare say
.. < chapter cix 21  AHAB AND STARBUCK IN THE CABIN >
.. < chapter cvi 29  AHAB'S LEG >
.. < chapter cvii 11  THE CARPENTER >
.. < chapter cviii 7  AHAB AND THE CARPENTER THE DECK--FIRST NIGHT WATCH >
.. < chapter cx 4  QUEEQUEG IN HIS COFFIN >
.. <p 458 >
.. <p 459 >
.. <p 459 >
.. <p 460 >
.. <p 461 >
.. <p 462 >
.. <p 462 >
.. <p 463 >
.. <p 464 >
.. <p 465 >
.. <p 465 >
.. <p 466 >
.. <p 467 >
.. <p 468 >
.. <p 469 >
.. <p 469 >
.. <p 469n. >
.. <p 470 >
.. <p 471 >
.. <p 472 >
.. <p 472 >
.. <p 473 >
About it!  There; keep thy finger on it.  This is a cogent vice thou hast
Ahab had quitted the Samuel Enderby of London, had not been unattended with
Ahab thus acted.  It may have been a flash of honesty in him; or mere
Ahab, said the reddening mate, moving further into the cabin, with a daring
Ahab.  Devils!  Dost thou then so much as dare to critically think of me?
Bashee Isles, between which lies one of the tropical outlets from the China
Because, as has been elsewhere noticed, those whales, influenced by some
Behring's straits, and into the remotest secret drawers and lockers of the
Burtons were hoisted.
But, in the end, it all came out; this one matter did, at least.  That direful
Carpenter, when he's through with that buckle, tell him to forge a pair of
Forty men in one ship hunting the Sperm Whale for forty-eight months think
Hold; while Prometheus is about it, I'll order a complete man after a
I mean.  Canst thou not drive that old Adam away?  Truly, sir, I begin to
In Sperm-whalemen with any considerable quantity of oil on board, it is a
Isles of the sea combined.  Moreover: we are to consider, that from the
Just in time, sir.  If the captain pleases, I will now mark the length.  Let
Look, driven one leg to death, and spavined the other for life, and now wears
Matsmai, and Sikoke.  With his snow-white new ivory leg braced against the
Moreover, the ship's forge was ordered to be hoisted out of its temporary
Noah's flood, he despised Noah's Ark; and if ever the world is to be again
Now, from the South and West the Pequod was drawing nigh to Formosa and the
Oh, sir, it will break bones--beware, beware!  No fear; I like a good grip; I
Prometheus about there? --the blacksmith, I mean --what's he about?  He must be
Queequeg, was seized with a fever, which brought him nigh to his endless end.
South-Sea-men's cabin furniture), and pointing it towards Starbuck,
That's mud; we leave clay to ditchers, sir.  The fellow's impious!  What art
There, take the order, and away.  Now, what's he speaking about, and who's he
Unwittingly here a secret has been divulged, which perhaps might more
a charmed circle of everlasting December, bid defiance to all pursuit from
a grandeur, and a woe.  But from the same point, take mankind in mass, and
a-calling with his horn for all legs, true or false, as brewery-men go round
about; and the hollow hull echoed under foot, as if you were treading over
accomplished, and with such liveliness of expertness in him, too; all this
account the whale immortal in his species, however perishable in his
accounted bits of ivory; heads he deemed but top-blocks; men themselves he
adult generations must be contemporary.  And what that is, we may soon gain
affair.
ago --not a good life-time --the census of the buffalo in Illinois exceeded the
ahab?  ahab seized a loaded musket from the rack (forming part of most
air; and I'm down in the whole world's books.  I am so rich, I could have
all conspired, so far as in them lay, to muffle up the knowledge of this
all-ramifying heartlessness; --yet was it oddly dashed at times, with an old,
all.  And equally fallacious seems the conceit, that because the so-called
almost forgot the little oval slate, smoothed ivory, where he figures up the
always says he's queer; says nothing but that one sufficient little word
and deeper, disturbing the slumbers of the huge ground-tier butts; and from
and fro, not only had gathered no moss; but what is more, had rubbed off
and hark ye, my conscience is in this ship's keel. --On deck!  Captain
and potentates of fire, have to do or not with earthly Ahab, yet, in this
and that must be because they use them mercifully, as a tender-hearted old
and there they were.  Yet, as previously hinted, this omnitooled,
and there's a great cry for life-boats.  And here's the heron's leg!  long and
and, I may say, an extremely gentlemanlike sort of business thou art in here,
anomalously did its duty.  What that was, whether essence of quicksilver, or a
any serious leakage in the precious cargo.
appearances lusty, yet Ahab did not deem it entirely trustworthy.  And,
are considerations which render even this circumstance of little or no account
are now aggregated into vast but widely separated, unfrequent armies.  That is
as an opposing argument in this matter.  Natural as it is to be somewhat
at a dollar an inch; in such a comparison an irresistible argument would seem
at all.  They soak water, they do; and of
awake.
babe; living without premeditated reference to this world or the next.  You
back the main-yard; up Burtons, and break out in the main-hold.  It were
been annually slain on the nor' west coast by the Americans alone; yet there
better ( sneezes).  Halloa, this bone dust is ( sneezes)-- why it's
beware of thyself, old man.  He waxes brave, but nevertheless obeys; most
big vice of wood, the carpenter symmetrically supplies the constellation.  A
birth-mark in the brow of man, is but the stamp of sorrow in the signers.
both useful and capricious.  The one grand stage where he enacted all his
brag with.  By heavens!  I'll get a crucible, and into it, and dissolve
brain, if he had ever had one, must have early oozed along into the muscles of
busily filing the ivory joist for the leg, which joist is firmly fixed in the
by hannibal, and by all the successive monarchs of the East --if they still
by the changed character of the withdrawn water, the mariners readily detect
cachalot, some philosophers of the forecastle have concluded that this
calculate over again; I think I didn't carry a small figure, sir.  Look ye,
can at last resort to their Polar citadels, and diving under the ultimate
careful bravery that!  murmured Ahab, as Starbuck disappeared.  What's that
carpenter for a screw-driver, all they had to do was to open that part of
carpenter of the Pequod was singularly efficient in those thousand nameless
carpenter.  And when that functionary appeared before him, he bade him
carpenter; --or would'st thou rather work in clay?  Sir? --Clay?  clay, sir?
cask containing coins of Captain Noah, with copies of the posted placards,
casks with sea-water; which afterwards, at varying intervals, is removed by
casks, but those leaky casks are in a leaky ship; and that's a far worse
census of men now in London, and though at the present day not one horn or
century and more, therefore at any one period of time, several distinct
certain canonic teachings, that while some natural enjoyments here shall have
chief
circle the above hinted casualty --remaining, as it did, moodily unaccounted
clean shaved rods of right-whale bone, and cross-beams of sperm whale ivory,
clearest-grained stuff might be secured.  This done, the carpenter received
coasts; the moot point is, whether Leviathan can long endure so wide a chase,
collecting old beer barrels, to fill 'em up again.  What a leg this is!  It
command to the steersman (it was, as ever, something about his not steering
commanded to proceed at once to the forging of whatever iron contrivances
concerning Ahab, always had it remained a mystery to some, why it was, that
conscience.  But look ye, the only real owner of anything is its commander;
contemporary and hereditary.  But most humble though he was, and far from
course get rheumatic, and have to be doctored ( sneezes) with washes and
crew: Furl the t'gallant-sails and close-reef the top-sails, fore and aft;
crutch-like, antediluvian, wheezing humorousness, not unstreaked now and then
cured.  Nor, at the time, had it failed to enter his monomaniac mind, that all
dead bone upon which he partly stood.  For it had not been very long prior to
deaf and dumb, spontaneous literal process.  He was a pure manipulator; his
debtor to this blockhead for a bone to stand on!  Cursed be that mortal
deep did they go; and so ancient, and corroded, and weedy the aspect of the
degree the scattered solitaries, yokes, and pods, and schools of other days
demijohn.  Top-heavy was the ship as a dinnerless student with all Aristotle
desirable pattern.  Imprimis, fifty feet high in his socks; then, chest
dignity and danger go hand in hand; till you get to be Captain, the higher
diligent tracings-out not belie the obvious deduction.  To trail the
disembowelled, you should have stooped over the hatchway, and peered down
displaced, that it had stake-wise smitten, and all but pierced his groin;
do naturally beget their like.  Yea, more than equally, thought Ahab; since
does it seem any argument in favor
done?  Perhaps an hour, sir.  Bungle away at it then, and bring it to me
ears.  Another has the toothache: the carpenter out pincers, and clapping
elsewhere seen -- mount his dead back in a rolling sea; and finally descend
empire (which was the world's); and yet I owe for the flesh in the tongue I
empty catacombs, and reeled and rolled in the sea like an air-freighted
ensuing scene, the carpenter continues sneezing at times).  Well, manmaker!
exclaimed: There is one God that is Lord over the earth, and one Captain
eyes in the deck, or new tree-nails in the side planks, and other
feel the smart of my crushed leg, though it be now so long dissolved; then,
feet through the wrist; no heart at all, brass forehead, and about a
fellow, Starbuck, he said lowly to the mate; then raising his voice to the
few drops of hartshorn, there is no telling.  But there it was; and there it
find it in the deep-loaded hull; or how hope to plug it, even if found, in
flood, spout his frothed defiance to the skies.
flooded, like the Netherlands, to kill off its rats, then the eternal whale
followed by the joy-childlessness of all hell's despair; whereas, some guilty
footstep at the door, but not turning round to it.  On deck!  Begone!
for a certain period, both before and after the sailing of the Pequod, he
for by Ahab --invested itself with terrors, not entirely underived from the
for it, independent of those pertaining to the distrusted one in use.
for the most part, they seem a mob of unnecessary duplicates, both
for, man?  thrusted light is worse than presented pistols.  i thought, sir,
forbearing!  Shall we not understand each other better than hitherto, Captain
forging the buckle-screw, sir, now.  Right.  It's a partnership; he supplies
former woe; and he too plainly seemed to see, that as the most poisonous
found too large to be easily inserted into its hole: the carpenter claps it
from promontory to cape; and if one coast is no longer enlivened with their
furnished with several vices, of different sizes, and both of iron and of
furnished, to show that the hunted whale cannot now escape speedy extinction.
furnishing an example of the high, humane abstraction; the Pequod's carpenter
genealogies
given bid for bid with the wealthiest Praetorians at the auction of the Roman
glassy barriers and walls there, come up among icy fields and floes; and in
globe, yet what shall we say to Harto, the historian of Goa, when he tells
good finish on.  Time, time; if I but only had the time, I could turn him
great part of the time soliloquizing; but only like an unreasoning wheel,
had abided for now some sixty years or more.  And this it was, this same
had elapsed, did it transpire upon the Pequod's decks.  But be all this as it
had hidden himself away with such Grand-Lama-like exclusiveness; and, for
half-horrible stolidity in him, involving, too, as it appeared, an
hand, the wondrous old man, with his back to the gangway door, was wrinkling
handicrafts which more or less have to do with wood as an auxiliary material.
handle of his wooden vice, the carpenter signs him to clap his jaw in that,
hard which should be soft, and that soft which should be hard.  So we go,
he did not have a common soul in him, he had a subtle something that somehow
he half calmly rose, and as he quitted the cabin, paused for an instant and
he said --Ahab beware of Ahab --there's something there!  Then unconsciously
here's his leg!  Yes, now that I think of it, here's his bedfellow!  has a
here, carpenter; let me feel its grip once.  so, so; it does pinch some.
him, and the screw was fast: or if for tweezers, take him up by the legs,
his brow, and tracing his old courses again.  Who's there?  hearing the
his fingers.  He was like one of those unreasoning but still highly useful,
his old Mogulship, and see whether the length will be all right; too short,
his own pivot-hole there, he so vehemently wheeled round with an urgent
holders, so called.  Poor Queequeg!  when the ship was about half
hoof of them remains in all that region; and though the cause of this
hoops, were hoisted out, till at last the piled decks were hard to get
hunted from the savannas and glades of the middle seas, the whale-bone whales
hunting, since he has a pasture to expatiate in, which is precisely twice as
idleness in the hold; and, to accelerate the affair, the blacksmith was
if anything, I guess.  Ha!  that's the heel; we are in luck; here he comes,
if he would have him draw the tooth.  Thus, this carpenter was prepared at all
ignores you, though you dig foundations for cathedrals.  Yet was this
in his head.  Well was it that the Typhoons did not visit them then.  Now, at
in numerous trades and callings collateral to his own; the carpenter's
incredulous concerning the populousness of the more enormous creatures of the
indeed, it seemed small matter for wonder, that for all his pervading, mad
individuality.  He swam the seas before the continents broke water; he once
inexplicable, unimaginable casualty, his ivory limb having been so violently
inflexibly enough); then, the already shaken ivory received such an additional
inter-indebtedness which will not do away with ledgers.  I would be free as
into one of his ever-ready vices, and straightway files it smaller.  A lost
into the gloom of the hold, and bitterly sweating all day in that
it almost seemed not only every way seeking to avoid the slightest outward
it into Mr. Starbuck all the time -- queer, sir --queer, queer, very queer.  And
it is, so it is; if we get it.  I was speaking of the oil in the hold,
it speak thoroughly well for thy work, if, when I come to mount this leg
itself; A better man than I might well pass over in thee what he would
jets, then, be sure, some other and remoter strand has been very recently
lady uses her roly-poly old coach-horses.  But Ahab; oh he's a hard driver.
land of spirits and of wails.  So that, through their zeal for him, they had
land-bird of strange plumage strays on board, and is made a captive: out of
large as all Asia, both Americas, Europe and Africa, New Holland, and all the
lashed athwartships against the rear of the Try-works.  A belaying pin is
latitude.  So, so; chisel, file, and sand-paper, now!
leak must be further off.  So, it being calm weather, they broke out deeper
leak!  I'm all aleak myself.  Aye!  leaks in leaks!  not only full of leaky
lightly held for capstans.  But while now upon so wide a field thus variously
like to feel something in this slippery world that can hold, man.  What's
little cabin; but presently the thick plaits of his forehead relaxed, and
little swelled --of a common pocket knife; but containing, not only blades of
look-outs at the mast-heads of the whale-ships, now penetrating even through
looked so scornful at me!  I'm a sort of strange-thoughted
looks like a real live leg, filed down to nothing but the core; he'll be
lotions, just like live legs.  There; before I saw it off, now, I must call
lowermost puncheons, that you almost looked next for some mouldy corner-stone
made in fire must properly belong to fire; and so hell's probable.  How the
man.  But as perhaps fifty of these whale-bone whales are harpooned for one
manifestation of itself, but within also seemed more than half distrustful of
may; let the unseen, ambiguous synod in the air, or the vindictive princes
me measure, sir.  Measured for a leg!  good.  Well, it's not the first time.
mechanical emergencies continually recurring in a large ship, upon a three
mentioned Leviathans, they have two firm fortresses, which, in all human
mere shinbone --why it's easy as making hop-poles; only I should like to put a
might almost say, that this strange uncompromisedness in him involved a sort
might be needed.
mine once was; so, now, here is only one distinct leg to the eye,
miscellaneous matters more directly pertaining to his special business; he
mishap was at the bottom of his temporary recluseness.  And not only this, but
modelled after the Thames Tunnel; then, legs with roots to 'em, to stay in
moons of Saturn, and take high abstracted man alone; and he seems a wonder,
more recondite Nantucketers.  Whether owing to the almost omniscient
much by reason or by instinct, or simply because he had been tutored to it,
must not only face all the rage of the living whale, but --as we have
must up Burtons and break out.  Up Burtons and break out?  Now that we are
myself down to one small, compendious vertebra.  So.  Carpenter ( resuming
mystic significance, and, in some men, an archangelic grandeur; so do their
nearing Japan; heave-to here for a week to tinker a parcel of old hoops?
no children born to them for the other world, but, on the contrary, shall be
no means adequate; though, indeed, as touching all Ahab's deeper part, every
no; I must have a lantern.  Ho, ho!  That's it, hey?  Here are two, sir; one
nor was it without extreme difficulty that the agonizing wound was entirely
not be invisibly and uninterpenetratingly standing precisely where thou now
now a most meaning thing, that that old Greek, Prometheus, who made men, they
of creation yielding up the live bodies of all the men, women, and children
of his readiness in ordinary duties: --repairing stove boats, sprung spars,
of the gradual extinction of the Sperm Whale, for example, that in former
of the mate, and his fiery cheeks, you would have almost thought that he had
of these high mortal miseries, carries us at last among the sourceless
of unintelligence; for in his numerous trades, he did not seem to work so
officer of his ship.  However it was, his orders were executed; and the
oil of forty fish.  Whereas, in the days of the old Canadian and Indian hunters
old body like me, should never undertake to wade out into deep waters with
on the voyage, in order that a careful selection of the stoutest,
one hand upon his bench bids him be seated there; but the poor fellow
one place; then, arms three
open-and-shut carpenter, was, after all, no mere machine of an automaton.  If
or by any intermixture of all these, even or uneven; but merely by a kind of
or four years' voyage, in uncivilized and far-distant seas.  For not to speak
or it's somebody else, that's certain.  Ahab ( advancing). (During the
orders to have the leg completed that night; and to provide all the fittings
out as neat a leg now as ever ( sneezes) scraped to a lady in a parlor.  Those
out bone legs by the cord.  Halloa, there, you Smut!  bear a hand there with
outwards?  No, but put a sky-light on top of his head to illuminate inwards.
outyell the Typhoons.  What cares Ahab?  Owners, owners?  Thou art always
overspread by tens of thousands the prairies of Illinois and Missouri, and
pauselessly active in uncounted modes, still eternally holds its peace, and
perhaps vain to surmise exactly why it was, that as respecting Starbuck,
place with it; that is, carpenter, my old lost leg; the flesh and blood one,
plight than the Pequod's, man.  Yet I don't stop to plug my leak; for who can
pods, were encountered much oftener than at present, and, in consequence,
points, and alike indifferent and without respect in all.  Teeth he
positive havoc has already very seriously diminished their battalions.  But
possessed the privilege of a less banned approach to him; to that timid
posterity of Joy.  For, not to hint of this: that it is an inference from
prating to me, Starbuck, about those miserly owners, as if the owners were my
present human population of the globe.  Wherefore, for all these things, we
present matter of his leg, he took plain practical procedures; --he called the
presumed great longevity of whales, their probably attaining the age of a
primogenitures of the gods; so that, in the face of all the glad, hay-making
probability, will for ever remain impregnable.  And as upon the invasion of
progressive progeny of griefs beyond the grave; not at all to hint of this,
prone upon the ground, and insensible; by some unknown, and seemingly
properly, in set way, have been disclosed before.  With many other particulars
prudential policy which, under the circumstance, imperiously forbade the
pudding-heads should never grant premises. --How long before this leg is
pursuit being the ancient and outbranching trunk of all those numerous
quarter of an acre of fine brains; and let me see --shall I order eyes to see
queer; he's queer, says Stubb; he's queer--queer, queer; and keeps dinning
quickly enough resent in a younger man; aye!  and in a happier, Captain
really received the blaze of the levelled tube.  But, mastering his emotion,
really so, sir?  It is, man.  Look, put thy live leg here in the place where
received a half-splintering shock.  And when after gaining his own deck, and
recklessness, Ahab did at times give careful heed to the condition of that
reforming the shape of clumsy-bladed oars, inserting bull's
regular semi-weekly duty to conduct a hose into the hold, and drench the
representing the long eastern coasts of the Japanese islands -- Niphon,
reptile of the marsh perpetuates his kind as inevitably as the sweetest
returning the gun to the rack, he went to the deck.  Thou art but too good a
revelation partook more of significant darkness than of explanatory light.
rise) was a wilderness and a virgin, the same number of moccasined men, for
rulers, nail-filers, counter-sinkers.  So, if his superiors wanted to use the
said: Thou hast outraged, not insulted me, Sir; but for that I ask thee not
sailor takes a fancy to wear shark-bone ear-rings: the carpenter drills his
say, should have been a blacksmith, and animated them with fire; for what's
screwed leg of his table, and with a long pruning-hook of a jack-knife in his
sea-going ship carpenters, and more especially those belonging to whaling
senate of the dead.  Captain Peleg's bruited reason for this thing appeared by
shook their iron manes and scowled with their thunder-clotted brows upon the
sir.  And I was not speaking or thinking of that at all.  Begone!  Let it
sir; how that a dismasted man never entirely loses the feeling of his old
sites of populous river-capitals, where now the polite broker sells you land
slightest symptom of open disaffection, however transient, in the important
so strangely respectful and cautious that
so.  For nothing was this man more remarkable, than for a certain impersonal
some idea of, by imagining all the grave-yards, cemeteries, and family vaults
some small violence to his own person.  He had lighted with such energy upon a
sometimes, they say; but that's only haphazard-like.  Then, a short, little
songster of the grove; so, equally with every felicity, all miserable events
soot flies!  This must be the remainder the Greek made the Africans of.
sorts lying about the bench.  Forward, the red flame of the forge is seen,
spar, but it will be still pricking him at times.  May I humbly ask if it be
speaking to, I should like to know?  Shall I keep standing here? ( aside).
standest; aye, and standing there in thy spite?  In thy most solitary hours,
standing on this to-morrow; he'll be taking altitudes on it.  Halloa!  I
stars to be painted upon the blade of his every oar; screwing each oar in his
startled by the unfamiliar spectacle.  Furthermore: concerning these last
steel shoulder-blades; there's a pedlar aboard with a crushing pack.  Sir?
stick of whale's jaw-bone for a wife!  And this is his leg; he'll stand on
stolidity as it were; impersonal, I say; for it so shaded off into the
stolidity discernible in the whole visible world; which while
subterraneous confinement, resolutely manhandle the clumsiest casks and see
suns, and soft-cymballing, round harvest-moons, we must needs give in to
supplied with all the studs and joists of jaw-ivory (Sperm Whale) which had
surrounding infinite of things, that it seemed one with the general
survive there in great numbers, much more may the great whale outlast all
swam over the site of the Tuileries, and Windsor Castle, and the Kremlin.  In
tall, heron-built captains; the water chucks you under the chin pretty quick,
temperate climes.  And there seems no reason to doubt that if these elephants,
that black midnight sending those gigantic moles into the daylight above.  So
that ferule and buckle-screw; I'll be ready for them presently.  Lucky now
that in those regions elephants are numerous as droves of cattle in the
that is lord over the Pequod. --On deck!  For an instant in the flashing eyes
that one interval, sought speechless refuge, as it were, among the marble
that the casks last struck into the hold were perfectly sound, and that the
that this old carpenter had been a life-long wanderer, whose much rolling, to
that you spoke to carpenter.  Carpenter?  why that's --but no; --a very tidy,
that, if need were, could be statistically stated.  Nor, considered aright,
the Pequod's sailing from Nantucket, that he had been found one night lying
the anguish of that then present suffering was but the direct issue of a
the muscle part.  He makes a fierce red flame there!  Aye, sir; he must have
the oriental archipelagoes spread before him; and another separate one
the same number of months, mounted on horse instead of sailing in ships,
the ship's pumps.  Hereby the casks are sought to be kept damply tight; while
the voyages were not so prolonged, and were also much more remunerative.
the waters, and the last whale, like the last man, smoke his last pipe, and
the whale-hunt peremptorily forbids so inglorious an end to the Leviathan.
the white heat for this kind of fine work.  Um-m.  So he must.  I do deem it
their valleys, the frosty Swiss have retreated to their mountains; so,
them, hence that species also is declining.  For they are only being driven
then himself evaporate in the final puff.  Comparing the humped herds of
then, dost thou not fear eavesdroppers?  Hold, don't speak!  And if I still
there still seems an inequality in the deeper analysis of the thing.  For,
they have done extremely well, and thank God, if at last they carry home the
thing from others; and hence it was, that not till a considerable interval
this life's howling gale?  Starbuck!  I'll not have the Burtons hoisted.
this soliloquizer on guard there, and talking all the time to keep himself
this time it was that my poor pagan companion, and fast bosom-friend,
this.  What was that now about one leg standing in three places, and all
this: that the gods themselves are not for ever glad.  The ineffaceable, sad
those screws, and let's finish it before the resurrection fellow comes
thou callest thyself a right good workmanlike workman, eh!  Well, then, will
thou makest, I shall nevertheless feel another leg in the same identical
thou sneezing about?  Bone is rather dusty, sir.  Take the hint, then; and
though for some time past a number of these whales, not less than 13,000 have
thought Ahab, while even the highest earthly felicities ever have a certain
three places standing in one hell --how was that?  Oh!  I don't wonder he
thus far been accumulated
thwart of his boat that his ivory leg had
to beware of Starbuck; thou wouldst but laugh; but let Ahab beware of Ahab;
to that ever-contracting, dropping circle ashore, who, for any reason,
to their stowage.  To be short, among whalemen, the harpooneers are the
too, of water, and bread, and beef, and shooks of staves, and iron bundles of
twist and wrench, that though it still remained entire, and to all
unaccountable, cunning life-principle in him; this it was, that kept him a
understand somewhat now.  Yes, I have heard something curious on that score,
unmanageably winces under the unconcluded operation; whirling round the
unsignifying pettiness lurking in them, but, at bottom, all heart-woes, a
us that at one hunting the King of Siam took
using the musket for a staff, with an iron brow he paced to and fro in the
vainly warning the infatuated old world from the flood.  Tierce after tierce,
various parts so manifold, was his vice-bench; a long rude ponderous table
various sizes, but also screw-drivers, cork-screws, tweezers, awls, pens,
vessels, he was, to a certain off-handed, practical extent, alike experienced
vice.  Slabs of ivory, leather straps, pads, screws, and various tools of all
views to safety, now swim the seas in immense caravans, so that to a large
was a stript abstract; an unfractioned integral; uncompromised as a new-born
was moreover unhesitatingly expert in all manner of conflicting aptitudes,
was no duplicate; hence, he now comes in person on this stage.  Like all
was shown; and Starbuck went down into the cabin to report this unfavorable
waters into the Pacific.  And so Starbuck found Ahab with a general chart of
were pumping the ship next morning; and lo!  no inconsiderable oil came up
whale-bone whales no longer haunt many grounds in former years abounding with
whales with the humped herds of buffalo, which, not forty years ago,
what an old fellow gets now for working in dead lumber.  Saw a live tree, and
whatever small outward clingings might have originally pertained to him?  He
when thou art dead, never bury thyself under living people's noses.  Sir?
where the blacksmith is at work.) Drat the file, and drat the bone!  That is
which also hummingly soliloquizes; or rather, his body was a sentry-box and
who file old jaws and shinbones.  Let's try another.  Aye, now, this works
who were alive seventy-five years ago; and adding this countless host to the
why mayest not thou, carpenter, feel the fiery pains of hell for ever, and
will serve my turn.  What art thou thrusting that thief-catcher into my face
will still survive, and rearing upon the topmost crest of the equatorial
with a certain grizzled wittiness; such as might have served to pass the time
with the water; the casks below must have sprung a bad leak.  Much concern
without a body?  Hah!  Good Lord!  Truly, sir, if it comes to that, I must
without delay set about making a new leg, and directed the mates to see him
wondrous extermination was the spear of man; yet the far different nature of
wood.  At all times except when whales were alongside, this bench was securely
world; and the thousand harpoons and lances darted along all continental
would have slain not forty, but forty thousand and more buffaloes; a fact
would seem to argue some uncommon vivacity of intelligence.  But not precisely
wrist: the carpenter concocts a soothing lotion.  Stubb longed for vermillion
year.  What we come twenty thousand miles to get is worth saving, sir.  So
years (the latter part of the last century, say) these Leviathans, in small
yet two to the soul.  Where thou feelest tingling life; there, exactly there,
you don't get this dust; amputate a live bone, and you don't get it
you rise the harder you toil.  So with poor Queequeg, who, as harpooneer,
