





















     But ere stepping into the cabin doorway below, he pauses, ships a new face
     Charley profanely hinted they were humbug.  Be it known that, waiving all
     Concerning the officers of the
     Dinner, Mr. Starbuck, disappears into the cabin.  When the last echo of his
     It is chiefly with his name that I now have to do.  Philologically considered,
     It is noon; and Dough-Boy, the
     Narwhale; IV., the Thrasher; V., the Killer.  BOOK II. ( Octavo), CHAPTER
     OCTAVOES.  These embrace the whales of middling magnitude, among which at
     Of these so called Whalebone whales, there would seem to be several
     Razor Back Whale; VI.  the Sulphur Bottom Whale.  BOOK I. ( Folio),
     The Huzza Porpoise.  II.  The Algerine Porpoise.  III.  The Mealy-mouthed
     Whale; III.  the Fin Back Whale; IV.  the Hump-backed Whale; V. the
     are accounted a lucky omen.  If you yourself can withstand three cheers at
     book i. ( folio), chapter iv. ( hump back). --this whale is often seen on
     copestone to posterity.  God keep me from ever completing anything.  This
     druggists as you nowadays buy an ounce of rhubarb.  When, as I opine, in the
     hay, and especially as they do not spout, I deny their credentials as
     is famous for his tail, which he uses for a ferule in thrashing his foes.  He
     nor, on the other hand, link with it any fish hitherto authoritatively
     not sufficiently distinguish him, since the sperm whale also has a hump,
     them.  I call them thus, because he always swims in hilarious shoals, which
     whale oil, an inferior article in commerce.  Among the fishermen, he is
( Duodecimo), CHAPTER I ( Huzza Porpoise). -- This is the common porpoise
( Mealy-mouthed Porpoise).  The largest kind of Porpoise; and only found in
( Octavo), CHAPTER II. ( Black Fish). --I give the popular fishermen's names
( Right Whale).--In one respect this is the most venerable of the
(subdivisible into Chapters), and these shall comprehend them all, both small
--Another instance of a curiously named whale, so named I suppose from his
--Under this head I reckon a monster which, by the various names of
--however that may be --it would certainly be very convenient to him for a
.. < chapter xxxiii 24  THE SPECKSYNDER >
.. < chapter xxxiv 15  THE CABIN-TABLE >
.. <p 132 >
.. <p 132n. >
.. <p 133 >
.. <p 134 >
.. <p 135 >
.. <p 136 >
.. <p 137 >
.. <p 137n. >
.. <p 138 >
.. <p 139 >
.. <p 140 >
.. <p 141 >
.. <p 142 >
.. <p 142 >
.. <p 143 >
.. <p 144 >
.. <p 145 >
.. <p 145 >
.. <p 146 >
.. <p 147 >
Above, Linnaeus has given you those items.  But in brief, they are these:
According to magnitude I divide the whales into three primary BOOKS
Ahab thereby motioned Starbuck's plate towards him, the mate received his
BOOK I. ( Folio), CHAPTER VI. ( Sulphur Bottom). -- Another retiring
BOOK II. ( Octavo), CHAPTER III. ( Narwhale), that is, Nostril whale.
BOOK III. ( Duodecimo).  DUODECIMOES. --These include the smaller whales.  I.
Babylon; and to have been Belshazzar, not haughtily but courteously,
Belshazzar's, for Belshazzar was not the greatest.  Who has but once dined
But you cannot prove either of these surmises to be correct.  My own opinion
CHAPTER I. ( Sperm Whale). --This whale, among the English of old vaguely
Cetology than any other detached bodily distinctions, which the whale, in his
Cetology.
Coast, and various other parts of the world, designated by them Right Whale
Coffin said it was used for an ice-piercer; for the Narwhale, rising to the
Coffin, of Nantucket, both messmates of mine in a certain voyage, and they
Cruising Grounds.  Some pretend to see a difference between the Greenland
Dugongs (Pig-fish and Sow-fish of the Coffins of Nantucket) are included by
Duodecimoes are infallibly whales, by the terms of my definition of what a
Fat-Cutter; usage, however, in time made it equivalent to Chief Harpooneer.
Feegee fish.  He sometimes takes the great Folio whales by the lip, and hangs
Fin-Back, Tall-Spout, and Long-John, has been seen almost in every sea and is
Fourth-of-July crowd.  Their appearance is generally hailed with delight by
Greenland Whale which the first syllable of the word literally expresses.  In
Greenland Whale; the Black Whale; the Great Whale; the True Whale; the Right
His oil is much like that of the common porpoise.  Beyond the DUODECIMO, this
However contracted, that definition is the result of expanded meditation.  A
I am aware that down to the present time, the fish styled Lamatins and
I. ( Grampus). --Though this fish, whose loud sonorous breathing, or rather
In shape, he differs in some degree from the Huzza Porpoise, being of a less
In those days, the captain's authority was restricted to the navigation and
Martin Frobisher on his return from that voyage, when Queen Bess did
Nantucketer.  Thus ends BOOK I. ( Folio), and now begins BOOK II. ( octavo).
Nay; what thing, for example, is there in the Greenland whale's anatomy more
Next: how shall we define the whale, by his obvious externals, so as
Nor, will the tragic dramatist who would depict mortal indomitableness in its
Now, then, come the grand divisions of the entire whale host.  First:
OCTAVO, the Grampus; of the DUODECIMO, the Porpoise.  FOLIOS.  Among these I
Ordinaire of the French whalemen; the Growlands Walfish of the Swedes.  It is
Over his ivory-inlaid table, Ahab presided like a mute, maned sea-lion on the
Porpoise.  To those who have not chanced specially to study the subject, it
Provoke him, and he will buckle to a shark.  I have lowered for him many
Sailors put it on their hones.  Porpoise meat is good eating, you know.  It
Sharks included.  BOOK II. ( Octavo), CHAPTER V. ( Thrasher). --This gentleman
Strength, Cash, and Patience!
Sulphur Bottom!  I can say nothing more that is true of ye, nor can the oldest
Tartarian tiles in some of his profounder divings.  He is seldom seen; at
Though the long period of a Southern whaling voyage (by far the longest of
WHALE.  As the type of the FOLIO I present the Sperm Whale; of the
Whale; the Cape Whale; the Leading Whale; the Cannon Whale; the Scragg Whale;
Whereas, among spouting fish the tail, though it may be similarly shaped,
Why this book of whales is not denominated the Quarto is very plain.  Because,
a chance, watch him; and you will then see the great Sperm whale himself in
a poor old whale-hunter like him; and, therefore, all outward majestical
a rapid Dinner, Mr. Flask, follows after his predecessors.  But the third
abridged.  At present he ranks simply as senior Harpooneer; and as such, is
accidentally obtained from the stranded fish; in those days spermaceti, it
after part of the ship.  That is to say, they take their meals in the
agree in all their grand features; nor has there yet been presented a single
all that,
all voyages now or ever made by man), the peculiar perils of it, and the
allusions to some kind of whales, yet it is in vain to attempt a clear
almost all whales.  So, call him the Hyena Whale, if you please.  His voracity
altogether, and, then, independent, hilarious little Flask enters King Ahab's
always at too great a distance to study his countenance.  He is never chased;
always conveys an idea of hugeness.  But the creatures set down above as
among the strange things bred by the intense artificialness of sea-usages,
amphibious.  but the last term of the definition is still more cogent, as
anatomy --there, at least, we shall be able to hit the right classification.
and English in the Arctic seas; it is the whale which the American fishermen
and all its concerns, the Specksynder or Chief Harpooneer reigned supreme.  In
and finding it sheeted with ice, thrusts his horn up, and so breaks through.
and horizontal tailed fish must be included in this ground-plan of Cetology.
and large.  I. The FOLIO WHALE; II.  the OCTAVO WHALE;  III.  the DUODECIMO
and merchantmen alike, the mates have their quarters with the captain; and
and more ago, the command of a whale ship was
and swallowed it, not without circumspection.  For, like the Coronation
announces dinner to his lord and master; who, sitting in the lee
are curved upwards, he carries an everlasting Mephistophelean grin on his
are more than one sort of porpoises, and something must be done to distinguish
argument, I take the good old fashioned ground that the whale is a fish, and
article commonly known as whalebone or baleen; and the oil specially known as
awhile, and then slightly shaking the main brace, to see whether it be all
basis.  On this rock every one of the whale-naturalists has split.  But it
be finished by their first architects; grand ones, true ones, ever leave the
be visible, this isolated fin will, at times, be seen plainly projecting from
beaked whales; pike-headed whales; bunched whales; under-jawed whales and
bear themselves boldly and defyingly enough towards their commander; yet,
bearing for his mark that style upon his back.  From having the baleen in his
before me in all his Nantucket grimness and shagginess; and in this episode
beholding these vivacious fish, then heaven help ye; the spirit of godly
between him and an officer called the Specksynder.  Literally this word means
billows to windward.  They are the lads that always live before the wind.  They
bilocular heart, their lungs, their movable eyelids, their hollow ears, penem
blowing, has furnished a proverb to landsmen, is so well known a denizen of
burn unsavory tallow instead of odorous wax.  Though their blubber is very
but a lengthened tusk, growing out from the jaw in a line a little depressed
but noiseless squall of a hornpipe right over the Grand Turk's head; and
but one of the captain's more inferior subalterns.  Nevertheless, as upon the
but there again the similitude ceases.  And it is just the same with the other
by no means unobservant of the paramount forms and usages of the sea.  Nor,
call upon holy Jonah to back me.  This fundamental thing settled, the next
captain's cabin, and sleep in a place indirectly communicating with it.
children before Ahab; and yet, in Ahab, there seemed not to lurk the smallest
circumpolar seas.  BOOK II. ( Octavo), CHAPTER IV. ( Killer). --Of this whale
classification of the Leviathan, founded upon either his baleen, or hump, or
color, approaching to olive.  His great lips present a cable-like aspect,
combinations; or, in the case of any one of them detached, such an irregular
commonly the whale whose distant jet is so often descried by passengers
community of interest prevailing among a company, all of whom, high or low,
complete inattention to the tidings, you would think that moody Ahab had not
considerable
conspicuous object.  this fin is some three or four feet long, growing
conspicuously to label him for all time to come?  To be short, then, a whale
contemptible set, mostly lurking in the mouths of rivers, and feeding on wet
coupled with the first.  Almost any one must have noticed that all the fish
course of time, the true nature of spermaceti became
creature hitherto identified with the whale by the best informed Nantucketers;
crossing the Atlantic, in the New York
czarship which there is no withstanding.  Now, if to this consideration you
deep sable, yet a boundary line, distinct as the mark in a ship's hull, called
degree remained unmanifested; through those forms that same sultanism became
departments of natural history become so repellingly intricate.  The right
depend for their profits, not upon fixed wages, but upon their common luck,
depends, and since in the American Fishery he is not only an important
determinate fact upon which to ground a radical distinction.  It is by endless
difference?  A problem?  Perhaps not.  To have been Belshazzar, King of
dinner in that same commander's cabin, and straightway their inoffensive, not
dinner-table of invited guests, that man's unchallenged power and dominion of
distilled to a volatile salts for fainting ladies, the same way that the
distinctions a fiftieth part as available to the systematizer as those
distinguishing feature, the fin, from which he derives his name, is often a
elucidating the sperm whale.  BOOK I. ( Folio), CHAPTER III. ( Fin-Back).
emir, now seeing himself all alone on the quarter-deck, seems to feel
employs it for a rake in turning over the bottom of the sea for food.  Charley
encircles an imperial brain;
enhance its value by a notion so strangely significant of its scarcity.  And
entrenchments, always, in themselves, more or less paltry and base.  This it
escaped from a felonious visit to a meal-bag.  A most mean and mealy aspect!
events hereafter to be detailed, he addressed them in unusual terms, whether
evinced by the fact, that originally in the old Dutch Fishery, two centuries
example of the Unicornism to be found in almost every kingdom of animated
exceed ten, and even attain to fifteen feet.  Strictly speaking, this horn is
external ones already enumerated.  What then remains?  nothing but to take hold
face.  This whale averages some sixteen or eighteen feet in length.  He is
familiar to landsmen have not a flat, but a vertical, or up-and-down tail.
family these whalemen may, in some primitive instances, live together; for
featured in the unbodied air!
feet should be marshalled among WHALES --a word, which, in the popular sense,
few turns along the planks, and, after a grave peep into the binnacle, says,
figure.  He has no fins on his back (most other porpoises have), he has a
fin, or teeth; notwithstanding that those marked parts or features very
flogging him; as some schoolmasters get along in the world by a similar
folder in reading pamphlets.  The Narwhale I have heard called the Tusked
for all these fish, for generally they are the best.  Where any name happens
for the world they would have profaned that moment with the slightest
formed by the intertwisting, slanting folds of large wrinkles.  His grand
found almost all over the globe.  The name is of my own bestowal; for there
found in almost all latitudes.  He has a peculiar way of showing his dorsal
from the circumstance that he is chiefly found in the vicinity of that Folio.
from the horizontal.  But it is only found on the sinister side, which has an
from the men before the mast, and be in some way distinguished as their
frugal housekeepers, in the absence of company, and quite alone by themselves,
fullest sweep and direct swing, ever forget a hint, incidentally so important
future investigators, who may complete what I have here but begun.  If any of
gallantly wave her jewelled hand to him from a window of Greenwich Palace, as
gamesomeness is not in ye.  A well-fed, plump Huzza Porpoise will yield you
general management of the vessel: while over the whale-hunting department
gentleman, with a brimstone belly, doubtless got by scraping along the
good conduct of the harpooneers the success of a whaling voyage largely
grand political maxim of the sea demands, that he should nominally live apart
grandeur not surpassed in any military navy; nay, extorting almost as much
graved on it.  On that Ahaz-dial the shadow often goes back.  The Fin-Back is
grounds upon which Linnaeus would fain have banished
handful of the Divine Inert, than through their undoubted superiority over
hardly help suspecting them for mere sounds, full of Leviathanism, but
have kept my word.  But I now leave my cetological System standing thus
have long pursued in the Indian ocean, on the Brazil Banks, on the Nor' West
he being the only creature from which that valuable substance, spermaceti, is
he ever exacted, was implicit, instantaneous obedience; though he required no
he has never yet shown any part of him but his back, which rises in a long
he would run away with rope-walks of line.  Prodigies are told of him.  Adieu,
head, and the whole of his mouth, which makes him look as if he had just
heard his menial.  But presently, catching hold of the mizen shrouds, he
here include the following chapters: -- I. The Sperm Whale; II.  the Right
him the Elephant and Castle whale.  At any rate, the popular name for him does
his bold ship sailed down the Thames; when Sir Martin returned from that
his friends, has tasted what it is to be Caesar.  It is a witchery of social
his jaws is exceedingly valuable.  It is in request among jewellers and
his own proper turn, each officer waited to be served.  They were as little
hitherto been designated, is that of the fishers -- Right-Whale Porpoise,
hooked fin in swimming, which looks something like a Roman nose.  When not
horns of the male deer are manufactured into hartshorn.  Originally it was in
humpbacked whale, each has a hump; but there the similitude ceases.  Then,
hustings; and leaves the highest honors that this air can give, to those men
ill effect, giving its owner something analogous to the aspect of a clumsy
impossible correctly to classify the Greenland whale.  And if you descend
in all sorts of directions, and kicking off his shoes, he strikes into a sharp
in his art, as the one now alluded to.  But Ahab, my Captain, still moves
in quantity, and pretty good for light.  By some fishermen his approach is
in the case of Nicholas the Czar, the ringed crown of geographical empire
in the rightly regal and intelligent spirit presides over his own private
in which you will see the skipper parading his quarter-deck with an elated
incarnate in an irresistible dictatorship.  For be a man's intellectual
incorporated into this System, according to his Folio, Octavo, or Duodecimo
indiscriminately designated by all the following titles: The Whale; the
indistinctness.  For we are all killers, on land and on sea; Bonapartes and
individual influence for the time; that man's royalty of state transcends
inhabitant of the globe; the most formidable of all whales to encounter; the
instances even to idiot imbecility they have imparted potency.  But when, as
into harbor.  He has a great pack on him like a peddler; or you might call
into the bowels of the various leviathans, why there you will not find
intrantem feminam mammis lactantem, and finally, ex lege naturae jure
invariably assumes a horizontal position.  By the above definition of what a
is a spouting fish with a horizontal tail.  There you have him.
is little of it, and he is seldom hunted.  He is mostly found in the
is never hunted.  I never heard what sort of oil he has.  Exception
is the present Cachalot of the French, and the Pottsfich of the Germans, and
is well known, and from the circumstance that the inner angles of his lips
is, that for ever keeps God's true princes of the Empire from the world's
is, that however this one-sided horn may really be used by the Narwhale
isolation; as utterly to defy all general methodization formed upon such a
it is absurd.  Some centuries ago, when the Sperm whale was almost wholly
it must needs be plucked at from the skies, and dived for in the deep, and
itself accounted an object of great curiosity.  Black Letter tells me that Sir
kinds, presents.  How then?  The baleen, hump, back-fin, and teeth; these are
known as the Trumpa whale, and the Physeter whale, and the Anvil Headed whale,
known but his name.  I have seen him at a distance off Cape Horn.  Of a
known, its original name was still retained by the dealers; no doubt to
least I have never seen him except in the remoter southern seas, and then
least given to that sort of shallowest assumption; and though the only homage
left-handed man.  What precise purpose this ivory horn or lance answers, it
leopard-like look, being of a milk-white ground color, dotted with round and
leviathans, being the one first regularly hunted by man.  It yields the
light, but only as an ointment and medicament.  It was only to be had from the
like a tall misanthropic spear upon a barren plain; gifted with such
little is precisely known to the Nantucketer, and nothing at all to the
lovely tail, and sentimental Indian eyes of a hazel hue.  But his
lungs and warm blood; whereas, all other fish are lungless and cold blooded.
magnitude: --The Bottle-Nose Whale; the Junk Whale; the Pudding-Headed
man to remove the shoes from his feet ere stepping upon the quarter-deck; and
man's knife, as he carved the chief dish before him.  I do not suppose that
man; this leviathan seems the banished and unconquerable Cain of his race,
manner of uncouth names.  But I omit them as altogether obsolete; and can
many naturalists among the whales.  But as these pig-fish are a nosy,
may never have occurred to you that a porpoise spouts.  Indeed, his spout is
may possibly be conceived that, in the internal parts of the whale, in his
may possibly seem strange, that fishes not commonly exceeding four or five
mealy-mouth spoils all.  Though his entire back down to his side fins is of a
meat as though receiving alms; and cut it tenderly; and a little started if,
mention, that however such a nomenclature may be convenient in facilitating
merchantmen generally; yet, never mind how much like an old Mesopotamian
meritoque.  I submitted all this to my friends Simeon Macey and Charley
might be taken to the name bestowed upon this whale, on the ground of its
miniature.  BOOK III. ( Duodecimo), CHAPTER II. ( Algerine Porpoise). -- A
more profitably employed, the sperm whale hunters sometimes capture the Hyena
most majestic in aspect; and lastly, by far the most valuable in commerce;
mounts the Folio whale's back, and as he swims, he works his passage by
mouth, the Fin-Back is sometimes included with the right whale, among a
mutely reckoning the latitude on the smooth, medallion-shaped tablet,
naturalists; the Greenland Whale of the English Whalemen; the Baliene
nature.  From certain cloistered old authors I have gathered that this same
not gregarious.  He seems a whale-hater, as some men are man-haters.  Very
not wholly lodged in the person now called the captain, but was divided
now, touching the Black Fish, so called, because blackness is the rule among
oblong spots of black.  His oil is very superior, clear and fine; but there
observation, even upon so neutral a topic as the weather.  No!  And when
obtained.  All his peculiarities will, in many other places, be enlarged upon.
obviously seem better adapted to afford the basis for a regular system of
of condescension or in terrorem, or otherwise; yet even Captain Ahab was
of officers, a class unknown of course in any other marine than the
of the whales bodily, in their entire liberal volume, and boldly sort them
of uncertain, fugitive, half-fabulous whales, which, as an American
officer in the boat, but under certain circumstances (night watches on a
on bended knees, did likewise present to her highness another horn, pertaining
one good gallon of good oil.  But the fine and delicate fluid extracted from
only one that can possibly succeed, for it alone is practicable.  To proceed.
order, nevertheless retain a proportionate likeness to them in figure, yet
other and more essential particulars.  Thus, the sperm whale and the
outlaws, even in the lawless seas.  thus ends book II. ( Octavo), and begins
outward homage as if he wore the imperial purple, and not the shabbiest of
packet-tracks.  In the length he attains, and in his baleen, the Fin-back
parts above mentioned.  In various sorts of whales, they form such irregular
peculiar horn being originally mistaken for a peaked nose.  The creature is
peculiarity on ship-board, arising from the existence of the harpooneer class
perchance, the knife grazed against the plate; and chewed it noiselessly;
perhaps, will it fail to be eventually perceived, that behind those forms and
pilot-cloth.  And though of all men the moody captain of the Pequod was the
pirate.  Very savage.  He is only found, I think, in the Pacific.  He is
point is, in what internal respect does the whale differ from other fish.
poison, and as such, preparations of it brought immense prices.  It was also
presence, in the character of Abjectus, or the Slave.  It is not the least
present may be numbered: --I., the Grampus; II., the Black Fish; III., the
process.  Still less is known of the Thrasher than of the Killer.  Both are
prodigious long horn of the Narwhale, which for a long period after hung in
professed naturalist.  From what I have seen of him at a distance, I should
professional superior; though always, by them, familiarly regarded as their
quarter-boat, has just been taking an observation of the sun; and is now
reaching out his knife and fork, between which the slice of beef was locked,
recognised him for one.  He is of moderate octavo size, varying from fifteen
regarded as alien.  Hence, all the smaller, spouting,
regarded as premonitory of the advance of the great sperm whale.  BOOK II.
relaxed, and in no instance done away.  Indeed, many are the Nantucket ships
relieved from some curious restraint; for, tipping all sorts of knowing winks
remotest and most sullen waters; his straight and single lofty jet rising
resembles the right whale, but is of a less portly girth, and a lighter
reserved for that daily purpose on the upper part of his ivory leg.  From his
retiring nature, he eludes both hunters and philosophers.  Though no coward,
right with that important rope, he likewise takes up the old burden, and with
rostrated whales, are the fishermen's names for a few sorts.  In connexion
rotund and jolly girth; indeed, he is of quite a neat and gentleman-like
say that he was about the bigness of a grampus.  He is very savage --a sort of
scuttle.  The second Emir lounges about the rigging
sea, is this--the first lives aft, the last forward.  Hence, in whale-ships
sea-unicorn's horn was in ancient days regarded as the great antidote against
separate colors, black above and white below.  The white comprises part of his
shape of the Folio volume, but the Octavo volume does.
sharp ridge.  Let him go.  I know little more of him, nor does anybody else.
shelf, he goes down rollicking, so far at least as he remains visible from
shy; always going solitary; unexpectedly rising to the surface in the
signifying nothing.  Finally: It was stated at the outset, that this system
so small that it is not very readily discernible.  But the next time you have
so the appellation must at last have come to be bestowed upon the whale from
so, too, in most of the American whalers the harpooneers are lodged in the
social arrogance.  With one mind, their intent eyes all fastened upon the old
social equal.  Now, the grand distinction drawn between officer and man at
some sixteen feet in length, while its horn averages five feet, though some
somewhat larger than the Huzza Porpoise, but much of the same general make.
spherical ripples, and this gnomon-like fin stands up and casts shadows upon
steward, thrusting his pale loaf-of-bread face from the cabin-scuttle,
still standing upon the top of the uncompleted tower.  For small erections may
striking than his baleen?  Yet we have seen that by his baleen it is
subdivisions based upon the most inconclusive differences, that some
subserve.  That certain sultanism of his brain, which had otherwise in a good
sultan's step has died away, and Starbuck, the first Emir, has every reason to
superadd the official supremacy of a ship-master, then, by inference, you
superiority what it will, it can never assume the practical, available
suppose that he is seated, then Starbuck rouses from his quietude, takes a
supremacy over other men, without the aid of some sort of external arts and
surface of the Polar Sea,
surrounding it somewhat resembles a dial, with its style and wavy hour-lines
swings himself to the deck, and in an even, unexhilarated voice, saying,
sword-fish and bill-fish; though some sailors tell me that the Narwhale
system does not proceed, inasmuch as the Porpoise is the smallest of the
table; this is marvellous, sometimes most comical.  Wherefore this
ten to one, let those very officers the next moment go down to their customary
that way.  And this is the Bibliographical system here adopted; and it is the
that while in the open air of the deck some officers will, upon provocation,
the Blue Whale; etc.  From Icelandic, Dutch, and old English authorities,
the British Greenland Fishery, under the corrupted title of Specksioneer,
the Coppered Whale; the Elephant Whale; the Iceberg Whale; the Quog Whale;
the Macrocephalus of the Long Words.  He is, without doubt, the largest
the Pacific, so far as it is known.  The only English name, by which he has
the bookbinder's Quarto volume in its diminished form does not preserve the
the bright waist, that line streaks him from stem to stern, with two
the castle at Windsor.  An Irish author avers that the Earl of Leicester,
the dead level of the mass.  Such large virtue lurks in these small things
the deck, reversing all other processions, by bringing up the rear with music.
the deep, yet is he not popularly classed among whales.  But possessing all
the following
the grand distinctive features of the leviathan, most naturalists have
the idea also, that this same spermaceti was that quickening humor of the
the mariner.  Full of fine spirits, they invariably come from the breezy
the most gamesome and light-hearted of all
the northern American coast.  He has been frequently captured there, and towed
the punctilious externals, at least, of the quarter-deck are seldom materially
the second species of my Folios?  It is the Great Mysticetus of the English
the surface.  When the sea is moderately calm, and slightly marked with
the whale which for more than two centuries past has been hunted by the Dutch
the whales from the waters, he states as follows: On account of their warm
the whales, making more gay foam and white water generally than any other of
the wrinkled surface, it may well be supposed that the watery circle
their forecastle appellations; for possibly such a list may be valuable to
them for other and more private ends than they were legitimately intended to
them.  BOOK I. ( Folio), CHAPTER V. ( Razor Back). --Of this whale little is
then, by a dexterous sleight, pitching his cap up into the mizentop for a
then, the plebeian herds crouch abased before the tremendous centralization.
theoretic species denominated Whalebone whales, that is, whales with baleen.
there like a leech, till the mighty brute is worried to death.  The Killer
there might be quoted other lists of uncertain whales, blessed with all
therein certainly must have been some touch of mundane grandeur.  But he who
these things do in some cases tend to beget a less rigorous discipline than in
thin, some of these whales will yield you upwards of thirty gallons of oil.
things whose peculiarities are indiscriminately dispersed among all sorts of
this old Dutch official is still retained, but his former dignity is sadly
this same humpbacked whale and the Greenland whale, each of these has baleen;
those times, also, spermaceti was exceedingly scarce, not being used for
though a smaller one.  His oil is not very valuable.  He has baleen.  He is
though there were times when, owing to peculiar circumstances connected with
thus multitudinously baptized.  What then is the whale, which I include in
times, but never yet saw him captured.  BOOK III. ( Duodecimo), CHAPTER III.
to a land beast of the unicorn nature.  The Narwhale has a very picturesque,
to be vague or inexpressive, I shall say so, and suggest another.  I do so
to say deprecatory and humble air towards him, as he sits at the head of the
to twenty-five feet in length, and of corresponding dimensions round the
together with their common vigilance, intrepidity, and hard work; though all
touching Emperors and Kings, I must not conceal that I have only to do with
trappings and housings are denied me.  Oh, Ahab!  what shall be grand in thee,
unfinished, even as the great Cathedral of Cologne was left, with the crane
united in the opinion that the reasons set forth were altogether insufficient.
unknown in his own proper individuality, and when his oil was only
upon the broad sea keep tossing themselves to heaven like caps in a
usages, as it were, he sometimes masked himself; incidentally making use of
varieties, most of which, however, are little known.  Broad-nosed whales and
vertically from the hinder part of the back, of an angular shape, and with a
very sharp pointed end.  Even if not the slightest other part of the creature
voyage, saith Black Letter, on bended knees he presented to her highness a
waist.  He swims in herds; he is never regularly hunted, though his oil is
walrus spouts much like a whale, but the walrus is not a fish, because he is
watchmakers.
whale is --i.  e.  a spouting fish, with a horizontal tail.  BOOK III.
whale is, I do by no means exclude from the leviathanic brotherhood any sea
whale of the English and the right whale of the Americans.  But they precisely
whale will be elsewhere treated of at some length, with reference to
whale, the Horned whale, and the Unicorn whale.  He is certainly a curious
whale, to keep up the supply of cheap oil for domestic employment --as some
whale-craft, this seems as good a place as any to set down a little domestic
whale-fleet.  The large importance attached to the harpooneer's vocation is
whale.  there is a deal of obscurity concerning the identity of the species
whaleman, I know by reputation, but not personally.  I shall enumerate them by
whales, shall hereafter be caught and marked, then he can readily be
whales, without any regard to what may be the nature of their structure in
whales.  Above, you have all the Leviathans of note.  But there are a rabble
whales; and have presented them with their passports to quit the kingdom of
whaling ground) the command of the ship's deck is also his; therefore the
when extreme political superstitions invest them, that in some royal
which this spermaceti was really derived.  BOOK I. ( Folio), CHAPTER II.
while the whales of this order, though smaller than those of the former
white coral beach, surrounded by his warlike but still deferential cubs.  In
who become famous more through their infinite inferiority to the choice hidden
whole book is but a draught --nay, but the draught of a draught.  Oh Time,
will derive the cause of that peculiarity of sea-life just mentioned.
with some touch of pleasantness, Dinner, Mr. Stubb, and descends the
with the one then known in England as the Greenland or Right Whale.  It was
with this appellative of Whalebone whales , it is of great importance to
wondrous power and velocity in swimming, as to defy all present pursuit from
would be hard to say.  It does not seemed to be used like the blade of the
would not be here, and at once, perfected.  You cannot but plainly see that I
would seem, was popularly supposed to be derived from a creature identical
