




















     Friends, hold my arms!  For in the mere act of penning my thoughts of this
     From his mighty bulk the whale
     Hitherto, in descriptively
     In the first
     Inasmuch, then, as this Leviathan comes floundering down upon us from the
     Syren --made a noble experimental cruise; and it was thus that the great
     Then the whole world was the whale's; and, king of creation, he left his
     Think you I let that chance go, without using my boat-hatchet and
     but of the whales found in that
     elaborate history of whales, in the very beginning of his work (page 3),
     float from forth the loom; the freshet-rushing carpet for ever slides away.
     flukes, an utter blank!  How vain and foolish, then, thought I, for timid
     from which list, as translated by Dr.  Snodhead.  I transcribe the following: 0084400,000 lbs.  of beef. 60,000 lbs.  Friesland pork. 150,000 lbs.  of stock fish.
     glimpses into those Polar eternities; when wedged bastions of ice pressed
     hundred feet in length --Rope Walks and Thames Tunnels of Whales!  And even in
     so variously repeated in this book, that the skeleton of the whale is by no
     that the skeleton of the whale furnishes but little clue to the shape of his
     there.
     was
     which measured eight feet and some inches.  From that part, the remaining
     wonderful devices, chiselled shells, inlaid spears, costly paddles,
 20,000 lbs.  of Texel and Leyden cheese. 144,000 lbs.  cheese (probably an
 550,000 lbs.  of biscuit. 72,000 lbs.  of soft bread. 2,800 firkins of butter.
(reydan-siskur, or Wrinkled Bellies) at one hundred and twenty yards; that
, on the
, the same house fitted out a discovery whale ship of their own, to go on
--not all though --were such famous, hospitable ships; that passed round the
--spread out his ribs like a gigantic fan --and swing all day upon his lower
.  But
.. < chapter cii 2  A BOWER IN THE ARSACIDES >
.. < chapter ciii 10  MEASUREMENT OF THE WHALE'S SKELETON >
.. < chapter civ 30  THE FOSSIL WHALE >
.. < chapter cv 24 DOES THE WHALE'S MAGNITUDE DIMINISH? WILL HE PERISH? >
.. <p 442 >
.. <p 443 >
.. <p 444 >
.. <p 445 >
.. <p 446 >
.. <p 447 >
.. <p 448 >
.. <p 449 >
.. <p 449 >
.. <p 450 >
.. <p 451 >
.. <p 451 >
.. <p 452 >
.. <p 453 >
.. <p 454 >
.. <p 455 >
.. <p 455 >
.. <p 456 >
.. <p 457 >
A significant illustration of the fact, again and again repeated in this book,
And as for my exact knowledge of the bones of the leviathan in their gigantic,
Attached to this back-bone, for something less than a third of its length,
Basilosaurus.  But some specimen bones of it being taken across the sea to
But by far the most wonderful of all cetacean relics was the almost complete
But when Leviathan is the text, the case is altered.  Fain am I to stagger to
Can you land a full-grown whale on your deck for examination, as a cook
Commanded by a naval Post-Captain, the Rattler made a rattling voyage of it,
Cutting me a green measuring-rod, I once more dived within the skeleton.
Dr.  Snodhead, so soon as he spied the book, assured me that Dan Coopman did
Enderby was a jolly ship; of good fare and plenty; fine flip and strong;
Fossil Whales, I present my credentials as a geologist, by stating that in my
From their arrow-slit in the skull, the priests perceived me taking the
Glen; the trees stood high and haughty, feeling their living sap; the
I shall now simply point out what is most interesting in the general bulk of
Ishmael; but have a care how you seize the privilege of Jonah alone; the
Japanese Whaling Ground first became generally known.  The Syren in this
John Leo, the old Barbary traveller.  Not far from the Sea-side, they have a
Leviathan, it behoves me to approve myself omnisciently exhaustive in the
Leviathan, they weary me, and make me faint with their out-reaching
Leviathans, their incalculable seniors; I am, by a flood, borne back to that
Likewise, by way of preliminary, I desire to remind the reader, that while
Nor must there be omitted another strange attestation of the antiquity of the
Pacific were thrown open.  But not content with this good deed, the
People imagine, that by a secret Power bestowed by God upon the Temple, no
Pharaoh's.  Methuselah seems a school-boy.  I look round to shake hands with
Rib of an incredible length for a Miracle, which lying upon the Ground with
Scotland, and in the States of Louisiana, Mississippi, and Alabama.  Among the
Seas, on the very coasts of that Esquimaux country where the convivial
Shem.  I am horror-struck at this antemosaic, unsourced existence of the
Sir Clifford thinks of charging twopence for a peep at the whispering gallery
Snodhead, a very learned man, professor of Low Dutch and High German in the
Sperm Whales have been captured near a hundred feet long at the time of
Spitzbergen sea, did not much exceed three months, say, and reckoning 30 men
Such a statement may prove useful here.  According to a careful calculation I
Temple, the Rafters and Beams of which are made of Whale-Bones; for Whales
Tertiary system, those belonging to its latter formations exceed in size
The English were preceded in the whale fishery by the Hollanders, Zealanders,
The weaver-god, he weaves; and by that weaving is he deafened, that he hears
There are forty and odd vertebrae in all, which in the skeleton are not
Thus we see how that the spine of even the hugest of living things tapers off
Tranque, years ago, when attached to the trading-ship Dey of Algiers, I was
Whale can pass it without immediate death.  But the truth of the Matter is,
When the vast body had at last been stripped of its fathom-deep enfoldings,
a flea --such portly terms might justly be deemed unwarrantably grandiloquent.
a tasting cruise to the remote waters of Japan.  That ship --well called the
according to my careful calculation, I say, a Sperm Whale of the largest
admeasurement of the whale.
admeasurements.  These admeasurements I now propose to set before you.  But
advance in magnitude upon those of all previous geological periods; may it
afar.  Now, amid the green, life-restless loom of that Arsacidean wood, the
affords a most congenial theme whereon to enlarge, amplify, and generally
akin to them in general respects, to justify their taking ranks as Cetacean
all the shrubs, and ferns, and grasses; the message-carrying air; all
all this, I will not admit that of all animals the whale alone should have
almost completely extinct; the subsequent relics discovered in what are
altitude of the final rib.  How now!  they shouted; Dar'st thou measure
among these latter was a great Sperm Whale, which, after an unusually long
an opportunity to dissect him in miniature.  In a ship I belonged to, a small
and Danes; from whom they derived many terms still extant in the fishery;
and Platonic application; and, furthermore, I compiled supplementary tables
and begat him curly-headed glories.  Now, when with royal Tranquo I visited
and bye we scrambled down, so sober, that we had to pass the flip again,
and did some service; how much does not appear.  But this is not all.  In 0084
and following it back, I emerged from the opening where I entered.  I saw no
and fro I paced before this skeleton --brushed the vines aside --broke through
and gills of good gin and good cheer.  At the time, I devoted three days to
and the ancient naturalists generally.  For Pliny tells us of whales that
and the bones become dust dry in the sun, then the skeleton was carefully
and throughout the whole universe, not excluding its suburbs.  Such, and so
and what is yet more, their fat old fashions, touching plenty to eat and
answer to any known species of the present time, they are yet sufficiently
are used for beams whereon to lay foot-path bridges over small streams.  In
aromatic canoes; and all these distributed among whatever natural wonders,
as his ancestors in Pliny's time.  And if ever I go where Pliny is, I, a
ascending from where the real jet had issued, I marvelled that the king
at last into simple child's play.
away from it in a straight line, not a little resembled the hull of a great
be the invaluable memoirs of some Amsterdam cooper in the fishery, as every
bearing on the other hand similar affinities to the annihilated antichronical
beef, and the bread, and the can, and the joke; and were not soon weary
been at all sparing of historical whale research, when it has seemed needed.
been found at the base of the Alps, in Lombardy, in France, in England, in
behoves me now to unbutton him still further, and untagging the points of his
belike of the tallow-vats, dairy-rooms, butteries, and cheeseries in his
beneath the skin of the adult whale; nevertheless, I have been blessed with
besides, it was an anti-scorbutic; in short, the bread contained the only
blotted out of existence.  When I stand among these mighty Leviathan skeletons,
boarded her once at midnight somewhere off the Patagonian coast, and drank
body in it.  They said it was bull-beef; others, that it was dromedary beef;
bones and skeletons, have within thirty years past, at various intervals,
bowels.  I confess, that since Jonah, few whalemen have penetrated very far
bowlines; and we ignorantly furled the skirts of our jackets into
bulk.  To produce a mighty book, you must choose a
but i do not know, for certain, how that was.  they had dumplings too; small,
but not so the English whaler.  Hence, in the English, this thing of whaling
but substantial, symmetrically globular, and indestructible dumplings.  I
called the Tertiary formations seem the connecting, or at any rate
cannot understand how it is, that while the Egyptian mummies that were buried
capitals.  Give me a condor's quill!  Give me Vesuvius' crater for an inkstand!
capstan, deliver lectures on the anatomy of the Cetacea; and by help of the
capture.  But may it not be, that while the whales of the present hour are an
case, however, where the reader is flooded with whole pipes, barrels, quarts,
cattle, should be put to this leviathan, to make him at all budge to any
ceiling a sculptured and painted planisphere, abounding in centaurs,
cerebellum; and sixpence for the unrivalled view from his forehead.  The
cheer of these English whalers is matter for historical research.  Nor have I
cheese consumed, seems amazing.  I impute it, though, to their naturally
cocoa-nut tree, whose plumage-like, tufted droopings seemed his verdant jet.
college of Santa Claus and St.  Pott's, to whom I handed the work for
compared with the living body.  Of this seventy-two feet, his skull and jaw
comprehensiveness of sweep, as if to include the whole circle of the
comprised some twenty feet, leaving some fifty feet of plain back-bone.
conclude so, if we are to credit the accounts of such gentlemen as Pliny,
considerably outweigh the combined population of a whole village of one
considering these ribs, I could not but be struck anew with the circumstance,
constable by name, a certain sir clifford constable has in his possession the
copied verbatim from my right arm, where I had them tattooed; as in my wild
crack fellows all, and capital from boot heels to hat-band.  But why was it,
cub Sperm Whale was once bodily hoisted to the deck for his poke or bag, to
cub?
damocles.  it was a wondrous sight.  the wood was green as mosses of the icy
deafened; and only when we escape it shall we hear the thousand voices that
degenerated.  But still another inquiry remains; one often agitated by the
directly upon the palace of the Tuileries; and bones disinterred in
dishes a roast-pig?  Surely not.  A veritable witness have you hitherto been,
disinterred in the Rue Dauphine in Paris, a short street opening almost
ditches, canals, and wells, wine-vaults, cellars, and cisterns of all sorts.
doctors declared it a huge reptile, and bestowed upon it the name of
drink.  For, as a general thing, the English merchant-ship scrimps her crew;
easy to step over into a dark corner when you ate it.  But all in all, taking
embraced acres of living bulk, and Aldrovandus of others which measured eight
enterprise; not overlooking the minutest seminal germs of his blood, and
ever-woven verdant warp and woof intermixed and hummed around him, the mighty
every Low Dutch harpooneer in that ancient Greenland and Spitzbergen whale
every month assuming greener, fresher verdure; but himself a skeleton.  Life
example to all drunken tars.  However, the masts did not go overboard; and by
example.  For, say they, when cruising in an empty ship, if you can get
excavating the great docks of Antwerp, in Napoleon's time.  Cuvier pronounced
exceed in magnitude the fattest of Pharaoh's fat kine; in the face of
expatiate.  Would you, you could not compress him.  By good rights he
expressly purchased for that purpose; because that famous lexicographer's
famous voyage was commanded by a Captain Coffin, a Nantucketer.  All honor to
fancied measurement I please.  Because there are skeleton authorities you can
fancied that you could feel them, and roll them about in you after they were
fancy them to have been, were the right sort of men to stand up in a boat's
far North, be it remembered, where beer agrees well with the constitution;
features.  But to a large and thorough sweeping comprehension of him, it
few disordered joints; and in place of the weighty and majestic, but boneless
find the unmistakable print of his fin.  In an apartment of the great temple
first, be it recorded, that, in this matter, I am not free to utter any
fishery.  In the first place, the amount of butter, and Texel and Leyden
folded Death; Death trellised Life; the grim god wived with youthful Life,
footman will show round future visitors with a bunch of keys at his side.
forth its vapory spout; while, suspended from a bough, the terrific lower jaw
fossils.  Detached broken fossils of pre-adamite whales, fragments of their
fresh fare they had.  But the forecastle was not very light, and it was very
full grown development, for that rare knowledge I am indebted to my late
full of the precious sperm, the Amelia's example was soon followed by other
full-grown magnitude of my friend King Tranquo's.  In both cases, the stranded
fully invested body.  So Owen rechristened the monster Zeuglodon; and in his
furlongs from spiracle to tail, and the yards he measures about the waist;
gain a complete notion of the general structure we are about to view.  In
globe of the moderns.  Gliding among them, old Leviathan swam as of yore; was
good cheer is not normal and natural, but incidental and particular; and,
good flip down in the forecastle.  It was a fine gam we had, and they were all
great chest of drawers, you can open and shut him, in all his bony cavities
great, white, worshipped skeleton lay lounging --a gigantic idler!  Yet, as the
griffins, and dolphins, similar to the grotesque figures on the celestial
hand! -- but one single word with thee!  Nay --the shuttle flies --the figures
hard upon what are now the Tropics; and in all the 25,000 miles of this
harpooneer sleepy at the mast-head and boozy in his boat; and grievous loss
have layn there a hundred Years before I saw it.  Their Historians affirm,
have made, and which I partly base upon Captain Scoresby's estimate, of
have villanies been detected.  Ah, mortal!  then, be heedful; for so, in all
head, and take good aim at flying whales; this would seem somewhat
head-waters of the Eternities, it may be fitly inquired, whether, in the
her from truck to helm, considering the dimensions of the cook's boilers,
high-bred, stall-fed, prize cattle of Smithfield, not only equal, but far
him in most of his present habitatory and anatomical peculiarities, it now
him like great cables and hausers coiled away in the subterranean orlop-deck
his angry flukes; only on the profound unbounded sea, can the fully invested
his ivory heel -- it minds me of the noble, solid, Saxon hospitality of that
his retired palm villa at Pupella; a sea-side glen not very far distant from
his unobstructed bones.  But as the colossal skull embraces so very large a
hitherto discovered belong to the Tertiary period, which is the last
hose, unbuckling his garters, and casting loose the hooks and the eyes of
idler seemed the cunning weaver; himself all woven over with the vines;
improbable.  Yet they did aim at them, and hit them too.  But this was very
in Hull, England, one of the whaling ports of that country, where they have
in depth.  Now, the greatest depth of the invested body of this particular
in the Tertiary system (embracing a distinct geological period prior to man),
in the earlier geological strata there are found the fossils of monsters now
in the spinal column; threepence to hear the echo in the hollow of his
in width something less than three feet, and in depth more than four.  The
inches.  In general thickness, they all bore a seemly correspondence to their
inches; they cracked each other's sconces with their yard-sticks -- the great
including his own live parchment boilers; fore and aft, I say, the Samuel
indefatigable house again bestirred itself: Samuel and all his Sons --how
industrious earth beneath was as a weaver's loom, with a gorgeous carpet on
inferior article). 550 ankers of Geneva. 10,800 barrels of beer.  Most
inserted, and the keel is otherwise, for the time, but a long, disconnected
intercepted links, between the antichronical creatures, and those whose
invited to spend part of the Arsacidean holidays with the lord of Tranque, at
is to be repeated concerning it in this chapter, you must not fail to carry
is to say, in his unconditional skeleton.  But how now, Ishmael?  How is it,
is very large, 10,800 barrels.  Now, as those polar fisheries could only be
is, three hundred and sixty feet.  And Lacepede, the French naturalist, in his
it deck?  wherefore all these ceaseless toilings?  Speak, weaver! --stay thy
it in your mind, or under your arm, as we proceed, otherwise you will not
it, whereof the ground-vine tendrils formed the warp and woof, and the
its convex part uppermost, makes an Arch, the Head of which cannot be
its many winding, shaded collonades and arbors.  But soon my line was out;
jack-knife, and breaking the seal and reading all the contents of that young
jaw.  Locks are to be put upon some of his trap-doors and shutters; and a
kept up an unextinguished aromatic flame, so that the mystic head again sent
landsman's imagination?  Having already in various ways put before you his
large sized modern whale.  And I have heard, on whalemen's authority, that
learned Low Dutch book treated of the commerce of Holland; and, among other
least ninety tons; so that reckoning thirteen men to a ton, he would
least, what untattooed parts might remain --I did not trouble myself with the
left his pre-adamite traces in the stereotype plates of nature, and in
length, the Sperm Whale's skeleton at Tranque measured seventy-two feet; so
length.  The middle ribs were the most arched.  In some of the Arsacides they
less than seventy feet in length in the skeleton.  Whereas, we have already
limestone and marl bequeathed his ancient bust; but upon Egyptian tablets,
list of the outfits for the larders and cellars of 180 sail of Dutch whalemen;
livers; and that the English whalers have not neglected so excellent an
living bulk of this leviathan, whose skeleton we are briefly to exhibit.
living flowers the figures.  All the trees, with all their laden branches;
living thing within; naught was there but bones.
locked together.  They mostly lie like the great knobbed blocks on a Gothic
long course of his generations, he has not degenerated from the original bulk
long; for in the whale, the skeleton loses about one fifth in length
longer, till you came to the climax of the fifth, or one of the middle ribs,
magnifying, is the virtue of a large and liberal theme!  We expand to its
magnitude of that part.  Besides, for some way, where I now saw but a naked
magnitude, between eighty-five and ninety feet in length, and something less
make sheaths for the barbs of the harpoons, and for the heads of the lances.
many, their mother only knows --and under their immediate auspices, and
marvelled that the priests should swear that smoky jet of his was genuine.  To
matters of barbaric vertu, had brought together in Pupella whatever rare
means the mould of his invested form.  The largest of the Tranque ribs, one
measured but little more than eight feet.  So that this rib only conveyed half
might ensue to Nantucket and New Bedford.  But no more; enough has been said
mighty theme.  No great and enduring volume can ever be written on the flea,
miscellaneous time i have been a stone-mason, and also a great digger of
more curious of such remains is part of a skull, which in the year
much diluted and pickled it to my taste.  The beef was fine --tough, but with
muscle, blood, and bowels.  Still more, for the ample fins, I here saw but a
natives pledge each other in bumpers of train oil.  The quantity of beer, too,
nearly six feet long; the second, third, and fourth were each successively
needs exist after all humane ages are over.  But not alone has this Leviathan
no mortal voice; and by that humming, we, too, who look on the loom are
no.  only in the heart of quickest perils; only when within the eddyings of
not be, that since Adam's time they have degenerated?  Assuredly, we must
not mean The Cooper, but The Merchant.  In short, this ancient and
not stand to assert, that the Prophet Jonas was cast forth by the Whale at
nothing better out of the world, get a good dinner out of it, at least.  And
odd inches; nor, indeed, should inches at all enter into a congenial
of Denderah, some fifty years ago, there was discovered upon the granite
of a line-of-battle-ship.  Since I have undertaken to manhandle this
of a monstrous size are oftentimes cast up dead upon that shore.  The Common
of eating, and drinking, and laughing?  I will tell you.  The abounding good
of gin.  Now, whether these gin and beer harpooneers, so fuddled as one might
of his sires.  But upon investigation we find, that not only are the whales of
of my own, touching the probable quantity of stock-fish, etc., consumed by
of the Academy of Sciences setting down certain Iceland Whales
of the honor, being a very fast sailer and a noble craft every way.  I
of the middle ones, occupied that part of the fish which, in life, is greatest
of the skeleton; as it is by far the most complicated part; and as nothing
of the true notion of the living
one of the most extraordinary creatures which the mutations of the globe have
one of these Dutch whalemen, including the short voyage to and from the
only think of the gigantic involutions of his intestines, where they lie in
other animals sculptured on the oldest Egyptian and Nineveh tablets, by the
out of you like billiard-balls.  The bread --but that couldn't be helped;
outer aspect; or separately and in detail upon some few interior structural
owen, the english anatomist, it turned out that this alleged reptile was a
paper read before the London Geological Society, pronounced it, in substance,
partly, I think, at their expense, the British government was induced to send
parts of my body to remain a blank page for a poem I was then composing --at
parts.  Sir Clifford's whale has been articulated throughout; so that, like a
pedigree like Leviathan?  Ahab's harpoon had shed older blood than the
place, I wish to lay before you a particular, plain statement, touching the
plainly heard without the walls, bursting from the opened casements.  Thereby
plantation of Judge Creagh, in Alabama.  The awe-stricken credulous slaves in
point of view.  Applied to any other creature than the Leviathan --to an ant or
poring over his dead attenuated skeleton, stretched in this peaceful wood.
preceding the superficial formations.  And though none of them precisely
present, and to come, with all the revolving panoramas of empire on earth,
privilege of discoursing upon the joists and beams; the rafters, ridge-pole,
profound
proportion of the entire extent
proprietors call the only perfect specimen of a Greenland or River Whale in
prosecuted in the short summer of that climate, so that the whole cruise of
qualities, my royal friend Tranquo, being gifted with a devout love for all
raging gale, had been found dead and stranded, with his head against a
rate of ten gallons the hour; and when the squall came (for it's squally off
reached by a Man upon a Camel's Back.  This Rib (says John Leo) is said to
reader, and if you be a Nantucketer, and a whaleman, you will silently worship
refer to, to test my accuracy.  There is a Leviathanic Museum, they tell me,
relative proportions in which they are drawn, just as plainly prove that the
remains to magnify him in an archaeological, fossiliferous, and antediluvian
remote posterity are said to have entered the Ark; all the Fossil Whales
researches in the leviathanic histories, I stumbled upon an ancient Dutch
resemblances to the existing breeds of sea-monsters; but at the same time
ribs diminished, till the tenth and last only spanned five feet and some
royal friend Tranquo, king of Tranque, one of the Arsacides.  For being at
said, that whenever it has been convenient to consult one in the course of
sciences, and all the generations of whales, and men, and mastodons, past,
seen, that the tape-measure gives seventy-two feet for the skeleton of a
sets down the Right Whale at one hundred metres, three hundred and
seventy tons for the largest sized Greenland whale of sixty feet in length;
sheltered it.  The ribs were hung with trophies; the vertebrae were carved
ship new-laid upon the stocks, when only some twenty of her naked bow-ribs are
ship; and may my parson forget me, and the devil remember me, if I ever lose
ships, English and American, and thus the vast Sperm Whale grounds of the
should only be treated of in imperial folio.  Not to tell over again his
should regard a chapel as an object of vertu.  He laughed.  But more I
sight of it.  Flip?  Did I say we had flip?  Yes, and we flipped it at the
skeleton dimensions I shall now proceed to set down are
skeleton of a Sperm Whale, but of moderate size, by no means of the
skull echoed --and seizing that lucky chance, I quickly concluded my own
skull, spout-hole, jaw, teeth, tail, forehead, fins, and divers other parts,
skulls, tusks, jaws, ribs, and vertebrae, all characterized by partial
sleepers, and under-pinnings, making up the frame-work of leviathan; and
smallest, where the spine tapers away into the tail, is only two inches in
some fine specimens of fin-backs and other whales.  Likewise, I have heard
speak through it.  For even so it is in all material factories.  The spoken
speedy enterprise.  But now it's done, it looks much like Pompey's Pillar.
spine, all that had been once wrapped round with tons of added bulk in flesh,
spinning him out to the uttermost coil of his bowels.  Having already described
spire, forming solid courses of heavy masonry.  The largest, a middle one, is
statistical tables are parchingly dry in the reading; not so in the present
subjects, contained a very interesting account of its whale fishery.  And in
subterranean parts of the whale?  Did erudite Stubb, mounted upon your
sun seemed a flying shuttle weaving the unwearied verdure.  Oh, busy weaver!
swallowed.  If you stooped over too far forward, you risked their pitching
than forty feet in its fullest circumference, such a whale will weigh at
that a Prophet who prophesy'd of Mahomet, came from this Temple, and some do
that fine gam I had --long, very long after old Ahab touched her planks with
that in the museum of Manchester, in New Hampshire, they have what the
that it was the production of one Fitz Swackhammer.  But my friend Dr.
that on either side of the Temple, there are Rocks that shoot two Miles into
that when fully invested and extended in life, he must have been ninety feet
that you, a mere oarsman in the fishery, pretend to know aught about the
the Base of the Temple.  In this Afric Temple of the Whale I leave you,
the Enderbies, therefore, whose house, I think, exists to the present day;
the Sea, and wound the Whales when they light upon 'em.  They keep a Whale's
the United States.  Moreover, at a place in Yorkshire, England, Burton
the days of Banks and Solander, Cooke's naturalists, we find a Danish member
the great South Sea of the other world.  The ship named after him was worthy
the joints of his innermost bones, set him before you in his ultimatum; that
the largest is the Alabama one mentioned in the last chapter, and that was
the present day superior in magnitude to those whose fossil remains are found
the ribs --and with a ball of Arsacidean twine, wandered, eddied long amid
the sails, so that we hung there, reefed fast in the howling gale, a warning
the sloop-of-war Rattler on a whaling voyage of discovery into the South Sea.
the studious digesting of all this beer, beef, and bread, during which many
the vicinity took it for the bones of one of the fallen angels.  The Alabama
the wonder-freighted, tribute-rendering waves had cast upon his shores.  Chief
their coffins as a modern Kentuckian in his socks; and while the cattle and
their proprietors upon similar grounds.  King Tranquo seizing his because he
their subject, though it may seem but an ordinary one.  How, then, with me,
then?  But hereupon a fierce contest rose among them, concerning feet and
there by Patagonia), and all hands --visitors and all --were called to reef
there swimming in that planisphere, centuries before Solomon was cradled.
therefore, I say, we have precisely two barrels of beer per man, for a
therefore, must have some special origin,
these dissertations, I have invariably used a huge quarto edition of Johnson,
these fragments to have belonged to some utterly unknown Leviathanic species.
these unceasingly were active.  Through the lacings of the leaves, the great
things the more ingenious of his people could invent; chiefly carved woods of
think ye, that the Samuel Enderby, and some other English whalers I know of
this chapter it was, headed Smeer, or Fat, that I found a long detailed
this din of the great world's loom, thy subtlest thinkings may be overheard
this emprise under the weightiest words of the dictionary.  And here be it
this empties the decanter.
this our god!  That's for us.  Aye, priests --well, how long do ye make him,
this vast ivory-ribbed chest, with the long, unrelieved spine, extending far
this wondrous whale, and saw the skull an altar, and the artificial smoke
those of its earlier ones.  Of all the pre-adamite whales yet exhumed, by far
though doubtless the original Samuel must long ago have slipped his cable for
though many there be who have tried it.  Ere entering upon the subject of
though the savage salt spray bursting down the forecastle scuttle, rather too
thoughts were incidentally suggested to me, capable of a transcendental
thousand one hundred inhabitants.  Think you not then that brains, like yoked
thousands of years before even Pliny was born, do not measure so much in
timber.  The ribs were ten on a side.  The first, to begin from the neck, was
to each of their fleet of 180 sail, we have 5,400 Low Dutch seamen in all;
to show that the old Dutch whalers of two or three centuries ago were high
topsails, we were so top-heavy that we had to swing each other aloft in
translation, giving him a box of sperm candles for his trouble -- this same
transported up the Pupella glen, where a grand temple of lordly palms now
treating of the Sperm Whale, I have chiefly dwelt upon the marvels of his
trumps --every soul on board.  A short life to them, and a jolly death.  And
twelve weeks' allowance, exclusive of his fair proportion of that 550 ankers
twenty-eight feet.  And this work was published so late as A. D.
uncommon personal bulk more fitted him to compile a lexicon to be used by a
unctuous natures, being rendered still more unctuous by the nature of their
unseen weaver! --pause! --one word! -- whither flows the fabric?  what palace may
unspeakable terrors of the whale, which, having been before all time, must
untravelled man to try to comprehend aright this wondrous whale, by merely
upon the Equator, in our southern fishery, beer would be apt to make the
urchins, the priest's children, who had stolen them to play marbles with.
valuable statistics.  But as I was crowded for space, and wished the other
vast skeleton of an extinct monster, found in the year
vibrated over all the devotees, like the hair-hung sword that so affrighted
vocation, and especially by their pursuing their game in those frigid Polar
volume, which, by the musty whaling smell of it, I knew must be about
voyage was a skilful and lucky one; and returning to her berth with her hold
wake along the present lines of the Andes and the Himmalehs.  Who can show a
wanderings at that period, there was no other secure way of preserving such
wanted it; and Sir Clifford, because he was lord of the seignories of those
was the mighty circular basket of ribs which once enclosed his vitals.  To me
we can consider it is, with a crane, to pile its bones high up on end.  No
were still smaller ones, but they had been lost by some little cannibal
whale author like me.  One often hears of writers that rise and swell with
whale be truly and livingly found out.  But the spine.  For that, the best way
whale must have been at least sixteen feet; whereas, the corresponding rib
whale ship must carry its cooper.  I was reinforced in this opinion by seeing
whale, in his own osseous post-diluvian reality, as set down by the venerable
whale, though of a departed species.
whaleman (more than he was), will make bold to tell him so.  Because I
whalers.  The title was, Dan Coopman, wherefore I concluded that this must
whales to which these two skeletons belonged, were originally claimed by
what our sailors called Bamboo-Town, his capital.  Among many other fine
which is here pointed out, and will be still further elucidated.  During my
whose antiquity seems to claim for them an almost fossiliferous character, we
width, and looks something like a white billiard-ball.  I was told that there
will any whaleman believe these stories?  No.  The whale of to-day is as big
windlass, hold up a specimen rib for exhibition?  Explain thyself, Ishmael.
with Arsacidean annals, in strange hieroglyphics; in the skull, the priests
with man.  Here Saturn's grey chaos rolls over me, and I obtain dim, shuddering
wondrous period, ere time itself can be said to have begun; for time began
words that are inaudible among the flying spindles; those same words are
world's circumference, not an inhabitable hand's breadth of land was visible.
writing of this Leviathan?  Unconsciously my chirography expands into placard
