

















     A nice spot, cried Flask; just let me prick him there once.  Avast!
     Adverse winds are holding mad Christmas in him, boys.  It's the first foul
     If the Sperm Whale be physiognomically a
     It was a terrific, most pitiable, and maddening sight.  The whale was now
     The predestinated day
     There are some
     There she slides, now!  Hurrah for the white-ash breeze!  Down with the
     Whale gives token of sinking, they fasten buoys to him, with plenty of
     What has he in his hand there?  cried Starbuck, pointing to something
     With a grating rush, the three lines flew round the loggerheads with such a
     and the ship seemed on the point of going over.  Hold on, hold on, won't
     do, do! --What's that Yarman about now?  At this moment Derick was in the act
     full of sparks, were given, when the exceeding strain effected the rest.
     holding on, as it is called; this hooking up by the sharp barbs of his live
     making affrighted broken circles in the air, vainly striving to escape the
     raised from the mast-heads of both vessels; and so eager for the chase was
     that he will keep thus bleeding and bleeding for a considerable period; even
-- It's against my religion to get mad; but I'd like to eat that villanous
-- What a hump --Oh, do pile on the beef --lays like a log!  Oh!  my lads, do
--don't oh, don't! -- see that Yarman --Oh!  won't ye pull for your duff, my
.. < chapter lxxx 2  THE NUT >
.. < chapter lxxxi 21  THE PEQUOD MEETS THE VIRGIN >
.. < chapter lxxxii 24  THE HONOR AND GLORY OF WHALING >
.. <p 345 >
.. <p 346 >
.. <p 347 >
.. <p 348 >
.. <p 348 >
.. <p 349 >
.. <p 350 >
.. <p 351 >
.. <p 352 >
.. <p 353 >
.. <p 354 >
.. <p 355 >
.. <p 356 >
.. <p 357 >
.. <p 358 >
.. <p 359 >
.. <p 359 >
.. <p 360 >
.. <p 361 >
At the instant of the dart an ulcerous jet shot from this cruel wound, and
Bremen.  At one time the greatest whaling people in the world, the Dutch and
But though boats have been taken down and lost in this way, yet it is this
By thunder, men, we must do something or go for it.  No use prying there;
Derick, that without pausing to put his oil-can and lamp-feeder aboard, he
Dericks, my friend.
Egypt of every man's and every being's face.  Physiognomy, like every other
German's aside with such force, that both Derick and his baffled harpooneer
Germans are now among the least; but here and there at very wide intervals of
Hurrah!  this is the way to sail now.  Every keel a sun-beam!  Hurrah! --Here
It might have been darted by some Nor' West Indian long before America was
Jungfrau was again lowering her boats; though the only spout in sight was
Leviathan was slain at the very first dart.  And let no man doubt this Arkite
Leviathan, in the creature's living intact state, is an entire delusion.  As
Nantucket irons entered the whale.  Blinding vapors of foam and white-fire!
Pacific.  For some reason, the Jungfrau seemed quite eager to pay her
Perseus, a son of Jupiter, was the first whaleman; and to the eternal honor of
Perseus, the prince of whalemen, intrepidly advancing, harpooned the monster,
Read if it you can.
Soon, while the crews were awaiting the arrival of the ship, the body showed
Sperm Whale is a very curious thing; nor has any fisherman yet adequately
Sphinx, to the phrenologist his brain seems that geometrical circle which it
Starbuck's orders, lines were secured to it at different points, so that ere
Starbuck, who had the ordering of affairs, hung on to it to the last; hung
Still rolling in his blood, at last he partially disclosed a strangely
Stubb, no, no, it's a coffee-pot, Mr. Starbuck; he's coming off to make
The three boats, in the first fury of the whale's headlong rush, bumped the
The whale, like all things that are mighty, wears a false brow to the common
Under all these circumstances, would it be unreasonable to survey and map
Whale is far less liable to this accident than any other species.  Where one
Whether he had lost that fin in battle, or had been born without it, it were
With a terrific snap, every fastening went adrift; the ship righted, the
Yarman --Pull--won't ye?  Are ye going to let that rascal beat ye?  Do ye love
Yarman!  Sail over him!  But so decided an original start had Derick had,
above-ground, in the air; how vast, then, the burden of a whale, bearing on
abreast with great speed straight before the wind, rubbing their flanks as
absolutely undeveloped skulls.  But the curious external resemblance, I take
accounted for it.  Usually the dead Sperm Whale floats with great buoyancy,
afraid, my butter-boxes, cried Stubb, casting a passing glance upon them as
after her four young keels, and thus they all disappeared far to leeward,
after the lapse of many hours or several days, the sunken whale again rises,
all their dexterous might, they caught repeated smoking turns with the rope
along with you, cried Flask, it's a lamp-feeder and an oil-can.  He's out
and delivered and married the maid.  It was an admirable artistic exploit,
and from the same point of view.  Indeed, place this reversed skull (scaled
and no prominence of any kind to denote their place; therefore, there must
and rather than be thus foiled of his game, Derick chose to hazard what to
and the Dragon; which dragon I maintain to have been a whale; for in many
and though
animal balloon.  A line-of-battle ship could hardly keep him under then.  In
animals there are certain valves or flood-gates in many of their veins,
appalling to the wounded whale must have been such huge phantoms flitting over
are instances where,
arm, and his blind eyes, he must die the death and be murdered, in order to
arrived, and we duly met the ship Jungfrau, Derick De Deer, master, of
as almost to defy pursuit for the time.  At this juncture, the Pequod's keel
as in a drought a river will flow, whose source is in the well-springs of
aslant.  To cross to the other side of the deck was like walking up the steep
astern --St. Bernard's dogs, you know --relieve distressed travellers.
astonishing atmospheric weight we ourselves stand up under; even here,
august hump, if I mistake not, rises over one of the larger vertebrae, and
avast, I say with your handspikes, and run one of ye for a prayer book and a
backward toss.  The unmannerly Dutch dogger!  cried Stubb.  Pull now,
barbs; and darted over the head of the German harpooneer, their three
because no vital part of him had thus far been struck.  His life, as they
because of its incredible power of swimming.  Nevertheless, the Fin-Back's
been gained, were now in long quick coils flung back all dripping into the
before described.  But as the stumps of harpoons are frequently found in the
before?  it must be, he's lost his tiller.  As an overladen Indiaman bearing
begun upon his whole arterial system; and when this is heightened by the
behind him to upbubble.  Who's got some paregoric?  said Stubb, he has the
behind its vast outworks, like the innermost citadel within the amplified
being pitched out too, when you strike a hill.  Hurrah!  this is the way a
belong, though but subordinately, to so emblazoned a fraternity.  The gallant
beneath them by the cords.  By very heedful management, when the ship drew
best; for it is but reasonable to presume, that the longer the stricken
billow that he broke, he spasmodically sank in the sea, or sideways rolled
blood, with swift fury blindly darted at the craft, bespattering them and
board.  As the three boats lay there on that gently rolling sea, gazing down
board.  Is this the creature of whom it was once so triumphantly said -- Canst
boat's bottom --and by the Lord, the mast there's budding.  This won't do,
boats, and soon the whale broke water within two ship's lengths of the
body that a cry was heard from the Pequod's mast-heads, announcing that the
bone in the Right Whale; his Venetian blinds alone sometimes weighing more
bones of the monster that Perseus slew.  When the Romans took Joppa, the same
boys.  Look at that Yarman!  The short and long of it is, men, will ye spit
brandy?  A hogshead of brandy, then, to the best man.  Come, why don't some of
brawny, buoyant heroes do sometimes sink.  Be it said, however, that the Sperm
bulk, and now and then partly turning over on his cumbrous rib-ends, expose
buoyant matter in him.  But it is not so.  For young whales, in the highest
buries, rolls, and wallows on her way; so did this old whale heave his aged
but he had not gained his ship's side, when whales were almost simultaneously
by the stiffest fluke-chains, for it was plain that unless artificially
by the unusual yellowish incrustations overgrowing him, seemed afflicted
by the wonderful comparative magnitude of his spinal cord.  But leaving this
cabinet there is no telling.  But a sudden stop was put to further
canal is filled with much the same strangely fibrous substance -- the spinal
capacity.  Now, of course, this
capsized, if still persisting in locking arms with the body; then, when the
capsizing, and he thundering away at his men in a mighty rage; --that was a
carcase sank.  Now, this occasional inevitable sinking of the recently killed
child-magian thoughts.  they deified the crocodile of the nile, because the
closely as so many spans of horses in harness.  They left a
command was given to break clear from it, such was the immovable strain upon
completely overtake and pass him.  as for derick, he seemed quite confident
concluding by hinting that his ship was indeed what in the Fishery is
contradict the old proverb about carrying coals to Newcastle, yet sometimes
convolutions, to their apprehensions, it seems more in keeping with the idea
cord --as the brain; and directly communicates with the brain.  And what is
cord remains of an undecreasing girth, almost equal to that of the brain.
crater -- in another cavity seldom exceeding ten inches in length and as many
crater to bed that part of the mass; while under the long floor of this
cried Starbuck, there's no need of that!  But humane Starbuck was too late.
cried Starbuck; he mocks and dares me with the very poor-box I filled for
crocodile is tongueless; and the Sperm Whale has no tongue, or as least it
cubic-yards of his sperm magazine.  Lying in strange folds, courses, and
d'ye say, Tashtego; are you the man to snap your spine in two-and-twenty
darts are counted as stubble; he laugheth at the shaking of a spear!  This
dead bodies of captured whales, with the flesh perfectly healed around them,
deck, ahab abruptly accosted him, without at all heeding what he had in his
deep.  Any man may kill a snake, but only a Perseus, a St.  George, a Coffin,
demi-gods and heroes, prophets of all sorts, who one way or other have shed
depression in the forehead's middle, which, in man, is Lavater's mark of
did indubitably conduct a lamp-feeder as Flask did declare.  As he mounted the
diminish; though that way viewed, its grandeur does not domineer upon you
discolored bunch or protuberance, the size of a bushel, low down on the flank.
discovered.  What other marvels might have been rummaged out of this monstrous
discoveries, by the ship's being unprecedentedly dragged over sideways to the
distinction upon it, I am transported with the reflection that I myself
dive into this matter of whaling, and push my researches up to the very
doing nothing particular to prove it.  It is moreover declared in his
don't budge an inch --we're becalmed.  Halloo, here's grass growing in the
down the Hindostan coast with a deck load of frightened horses, careens,
down to the human magnitude) among a plate of men's skulls, and you would
downward strain at the bows, the boats gave a sudden bounce upwards, as a
dropping a boat, her captain was impelled towards us, impatiently standing
ears, or mouth; no face; he has none, proper; nothing but that one broad
egotistical sky; in the now unhaunted hill; then be sure, exalted to Jove's
eight whales, an average pod.  Aware of their danger, they were going all
enormous surface of him --in a full grown sperm whale something less than
enterprises in which a careful disorderliness is the true method.  The more I
even with the water, while the three sterns tilted high in the air.  And the
extraordinary pressure of water at a great distance below the surface, his
far-off and undiscernible hills.  Even now, when the boats pulled upon this
fearful of expending more line, though the position was a little ticklish.
fellow feels when he's going to Davy Jones --all a rush down an endless
felt them in his seat.  The next moment, relieved in a great part from the
figure with the base downwards.  As it passes through the remaining vertebrae
fire or not?  Oh!  see the suds he makes!  cried Flask, dancing up and down
firmament of a forehead, pleated with riddles; dumbly lowering with the doom
flag which I fling half out to the world.  Apply this spinal branch of
flesh from the back; this it is that often torments the Leviathan into soon
flesh perfectly firm about it.  Who had darted that stone lance?  And when?
fluke-chains, to pry them adrift from the timber-heads; and so low had the
flukes, and the lances were darted into him, they were followed by steady
flush and May of life, with all their panting lard about them; even these
followed him, had considerably the start of the Pequod's keels.  There were
for ever escape.  But no sooner did his harpooneer stand up for the stroke,
for his true brain, you can then see no indications of it, nor feel any.
for the ulceration alluded to.  But still more curious was the fact of a
force as to gouge deep grooves in them; while so fearful were the
formed when two hostile currents meet.  His spout was short, slow, and
fortifications of Quebec.  So like a choice casket is it secreted in him,
found betokened in his backbone.  I would rather feel your spine than your
free his white-ash, and while, in consequence, Derick's boat was nigh to
from some mighty fountain, and with half-stifled melancholy gurglings the
from the Pequod's fish-spears!  In that sloping afternoon sunlight, the
from the glory of the exploit had St.  George but encountered a crawling
gabled roof of a house.  The ship groaned and gasped.  Many of the ivory
game having risen to leeward, he and the other three German boats that soon
generated in him; he swells to a prodigious magnitude; becomes a sort of
genius.  But how?  Genius in the Sperm Whale?  Has the Sperm Whale ever
goaded by it into more than sufferable anguish, the whale now spouting thick
god-dam, --cried the Indian.  Fiercely, but evenly incited by the taunts of
going head out, and sending his spout before him in a continual tormented
gone, and not a single flying-fish yet captured to supply the deficiency;
good time for Starbuck, Stubb, and Flask.  With a shout, they took a mortal
great, wide wake, as though continually unrolling a great wide parchment upon
greyhounds!  Dog to it!  I tell ye what it is, men --cried Stubb to his crew
habergeon: he esteemeth iron as straw; the arrow cannot make him flee;
had had, Derick's boat still led the chase, though every moment neared by
had shot by the three German boats last lowered; but from the great start he
hand, now to that, he yawed in his faltering flight, and still at every
hand; but in his broken lingo, the German soon evinced his complete
hard to say.  Only wait a bit, old chap, and I'll give ye a sling for that
harpoon was found imbedded in his flesh, on the lower part of the bunch
harpooneers that this rapid sounding would soon exhaust the lines, that using
has any other brain than that palpable semblance of one formed by the
have him.  With one intent all the combined rival boats were pointed for this
have the heart in them to march boldly up to a whale.  Let not the modern
he by loss of blood, that he helplessly rolled away from the wreck he had
he don't sling thee with it, cried Starbuck.  Give way, or the German will
he shot by; ye'll be picked up presently --all right --I saw some sharks
health, and swelling with noble aspirations, prematurely cut off in the warm
high seat, the great Sperm Whale shall lord it.  Champollion deciphered the
highly cultured, poetical nation shall lure back to their birth-right, the
him must have seemed a most unusually long dart, ere the last chance would
him not five minutes ago! --then in his old intense whisper -- give way,
hint to operate as it may with the phrenologists, I would merely assume the
his back a column of two hundred fathoms of ocean!  It must at least equal the
his foreign rivals.  The only thing they feared, was, that from being already
his hammock at night in profound darkness --his last drop of Bremen oil being
his head!  Stand by, men; he stirs, cried Starbuck, as the three lines
his lamp-feeder at the other boats.  The ungracious and ungrateful dog!
honorableness and antiquity; and especially when I find so many great
how the lovely Andromeda, the daughter of a king, was tied to a rock on the
huge, humped old bull, which by his comparatively slow progress, as well as
human science, is but a passing fable.  If then, Sir William Jones, who
hunters.  His motions plainly denoted his extreme exhaustion.  In most land
ignorance of the White Whale; immediately turning the conversation to his
important thing in not pushing their investigations from the cerebellum
in certain directions.  Not so with the whale; one of whose peculiarities it
in depth --reposes the mere handful of this monster's brain.  The brain is at
in the bows instead of the stern.
inches of perpendicular rope were visible at the bows.  Seems it credible
inclined plane is angularly filled up, and almost squared by the enormous
inclined plane!  Hurrah!  this whale carries the everlasting mail!  But the
indomitable, you will yet have reason to know.
indomitableness in the Sperm Whale.  And that the great monster is
inlayings of her bulwarks and cabins were started from their places, by the
intelligence.  It is plain, then, that phrenologically the head of this
into its eternal blue noon; and as not a single groan or cry of any sort,
into the sea.  Haul in!  Haul in!  cried Starbuck again; he's rising.  The
involuntarily confound it with them; and remarking the depressions on one
is impossible to square.  In the full-grown creature the skull will measure at
is so exceedingly small, as to be incapable of protrusion.  If hereafter any
is, therefore, in some sort, the outer convex mould of it.  From its relative
is, to have an entire nonvalvular structure of the blood-vessels, so that
it the Germans were not the first men to perceive.  A foreign friend once
its affrighted moisture into the air.  From this last vent no blood yet came,
jet; while his one poor fin beat his side in an agony of fright.  Now to this
jets from the new made wound, which kept continually playing, while the
known her fear; but the fear of this vast dumb brute of the sea, was chained
known to the young Orient World, he would have been deified by their
laborious; coming forth with a choking sort of gush, and spending itself in
lads --such a sog!  such a sogger!  Don't ye love sperm?  There goes three
lamp-feeder and oil can, with some remarks touching his having to turn into
lance-head of stone being found in him, not far from the buried iron, the
landsman would have thought, that beneath all that silence and placidity, the
last expiring spout.  As when by unseen hands the water is gradually drawn off
latitude and longitude, you still occasionally meet with their flag in the
lead-lined chocks of the boats, whence the three
least twenty feet from his apparent forehead in life; it is hidden away
least twenty feet in length.  Unhinge the lower jaw, and the side view of
life may be said to pour from him in incessant streams.  Yet so vast is the
light the gay bridals and other merry-makings of men, and also to illuminate
lines, of which, hardly an instant before, not one hand's breadth could have
long enough and broad enough to shade half Xerxes' army.  Who can tell how
long every boat was a buoy; the sunken whale being suspended a few inches
made; lay panting on his side, impotently flapped with his stumped fin,
magnetic wires, the life and death throbs of the whale, so that every oarsman
marring the bows.  It was his death stroke.  For, by this time, so spent was
measure ten inches across, being eight in height, and of a triangular
men's lamp-feeders.  Every one knows the fine story of Perseus and Andromeda;
men, like fifty thousand line-of-battle-ship loads of red-haired devils.  What
merry May-day gods of old; and livingly enthrone them again in the now
might with some reason assert that this sinking is caused by an uncommon
mind of fastening to an elephant in a tilbury on a plain --makes the
monster's run was a brief one.  Giving a sudden gasp, he tumultuously sounded.
more buoyant than in life.  But the reason of this is obvious.  Gases are
more forcibly than in beholding any other object in living nature.  For you see
more, and all four boats were diagonically in the whale's immediate wake,
most exalted potency is.  But if from the comparative dimensions of the
muffins --oh, do, do spring --he's a hundred barreler --don't lose him now
name of Jungfrau or the Virgin.  His necessities supplied, Derick departed;
natural spout-hole in his head was only at intervals, however rapid, sending
nay, not so much as a ripple or a bubble came up from its depths; what
neck-vertebra; and in that vertebra the bottom of the spinal canal will
needs have been some other unknown reason in the present case fully to account
nigh, the whale was transferred to her side, and was strongly secured there
no one point precisely; not one distinct feature is revealed; no nose, eyes,
noble soul.  I rejoice in my spine, as in the firm audacious staff of that
not killed with any sordid intent.  Those were the knightly days of our
of boats, and ships, and men.  Nor, in profile, does this wondrous brow
of him? --that's his boiling water.  Oh!  he's all right, is the Yarman.  Go
of his general might to regard that mystic part of him as the seat of his
of its rear end, which is the high end, you will be
of oil, and has come a-begging.  However curious it may seem for an oil-ship
of pitching his lamp-feeder at the advancing boats, and also his oil-can;
of that sort go down, twenty Right Whales do.  This difference in the
of the headsman when drawing near to his prey, the three mates stood up
of the whale.
often mistaken for it.  And consequently Derick and all his host were now in
old chronicles whales and dragons are strangely jumbled together, and often
on to it so resolutely, indeed, that when at length the ship would have been
one fish, because not only was he the largest, and therefore the most
ordinarily submerged, was plainly revealed.  His eyes, or rather the places
our calling be it said, that the first whale attacked by our brotherhood was
out the whale's spine phrenologically?  For, viewed in this light, the
pads of lard diminished and all their bones heavy and rheumatic; then you
paintings of this scene mislead us; for though the creature encountered by
part of its summit, in phrenological phrase you would say --This man had no
pen-knife, and cut the big chains.  Knife?  Aye, aye, cried Queequeg, and
perhaps with the double view of retarding his rivals' way, and at the same
peril of the thing, it is to be doubted whether this course is always the
phrenology to the Sperm Whale.  His cranial cavity is continuous with the first
pieces for the honor of old Gay-head?  What d'ye say?  I say, pull like
piratical hawks.  But the bird has a voice, and with plaintive cries will make
pitiable to see.  but pity there was none.  For all his old age, and his one
pitiable; while still, in his amazing bulk, portcullis jaw, and omnipotent
pointed it out to me, in the skeleton of a foe he had slain, and with the
profession, when we only bore arms to succor the distressed, and not to fill
profounder and more subtle meanings, how may unlettered Ishmael hope to read
proudly, occasionally backing the after oarsman with an exhilarating cry of,
prow of his canoe.  Now, I consider that the phrenologists have omitted an
pyramidical silence.  And this reminds me that had the great Sperm Whale been
quadruped's spine, you will be struck with the resemblance of its vertebrae
quantity of blood in him, and so distant and numerous its interior fountains,
race, had not a righteous judgment descended upon him in a crab which caught
rarely achieved by the best harpooneers of the present day; inasmuch as this
read in thirty languages, could not read the simplest peasant's face, in its
reptile of the land, instead of doing battle with the great monster of the
respects.  While yet some distance from the Pequod, she rounded to, and
rising again to meet the sharp lance of his foes.  Yet not to speak of the
rope; so that when the body has gone down, they know where to look for it
ropes went straight down into the blue --the gunwales of the bows were almost
sea, owing to the body's immensely increasing tendency to sink.  However,
sea-coast, and as Leviathan was in the very act of carrying her off,
secrets of his belly; lay like a log, and died.  It was most piteous, that
seemed to have egress at his other buried extremity, causing the waters
seizing the carpenter's heavy hatchet, he leaned out of a porthole, and
self-esteem, and no veneration.  And by those negations, considered along with
set sail.  Akin to the adventure of Perseus and Andromeda --indeed, by some
shadows that the three boats sent down beneath the surface, must have been
should follow the prophets.  For with the strength of a thousand thighs in his
significantly call it, was untouched.  As the boats now more closely
situation then, I should call this high hump the organ of firmness or
skeleton was carried to Italy in triumph.  What seems most singular and
skull, whoever you are.  A thin joist of a spine never yet upheld a full and
slewed round his boat and made after the leviathan lamp-feeders.  Now, the
small ice-field will, when a dense herd of white bears are scared from it
so disposed, momentarily neared him.  In that fine, loose, chivalrous attitude
so nigh to his mark, he would be enabled to dart his iron before they could
so.  In profile, you plainly perceive that horizontal, semi-crescentic
species is no doubt imputable in no small degree to the greater quantity of
specific gravity in the fish so sinking, consequent upon this absence of
spinal theory for a moment, in reference to the sperm whale's hump.  This
spout is so similar to the Sperm Whale's, that by unskilful fishermen it is
spray-column lowers and lowers to the ground --so the last long dying spout
spring --slap-jacks and quohogs for supper, you know, my lads --baked clams and
spring-head of it, so much the more am I impressed with its great
square feet --the pressure of the water is immense.  We all know what an
stand for each other.  Thou art as a lion of the waters, and as a dragon of
start forwards, and slantingly ranged up on the German's quarter.  An instant
steel to iron, began slashing at the largest fluke-chains.  But a few strokes,
still in bold, hopeful chase.  Oh!  many are the Fin-Backs, and many are the
still more, for many feet after emerging from the brain's cavity, the spinal
stomach-ache, I'm afraid.  Lord, think of having half an acre of stomach-ache!
story; for in the ancient Joppa, now Jaffa, on the Syrian coast, in one of
struck by its resemblance to the human skull, beheld in the same situation,
such a thing really happens; and in the present case Captain Derick De Deer
suddenly vibrated in the water, distinctly conducting upwards to them, as by
suggestively important in this story, is this: it was from Joppa that Jonah
superincumbent mass of the junk and sperm.  At the high end the skull forms a
supposed to be indirectly derived from it --is that famous story of St.  George
surrounded him, the whole upper part of his form, with much of it that is
sword of him that layeth at him cannot hold, the spear, the dart, nor the
symptoms of sinking with all its treasures unrifled.  Immediately, by
tail, Leviathan had run his head under the mountains of the sea, to hide him
tail, there was enough to appal the stoutest man who so pitied.  Seeing now
technically called a clean one (that is, an empty one), well deserving the
than a ton; from this incumbrance the Sperm Whale is wholly free.  But there
than all three tigers --Queequeg, Tashtego, Daggoo -- instinctively sprang to
that I have known some whalemen who peremptorily deny that the Sperm Whale
that but a very few moments more would give the Pequod's boats the advantage,
that by three such thin threads the great Leviathan was suspended like the big
that of a Fin-Back, belonging to the species of uncapturable whales,
that spite of all their gallantry, he would have proved the victor in this
that this would be the case, and occasionally with a deriding gesture shook
that valiant whaleman of old is vaguely represented of a griffin-like shape,
the German, the Pequod's three boats now began ranging almost abreast; and,
the Pagan temples, there stood for many ages the vast skeleton of a whale,
the Shore Whaling, on soundings, among the Bays of New Zealand, when a Right
the affirmative fact of his prodigious bulk and power, you can best form to
the awful Chaldee of the Sperm Whale's brow?  I but put that brow before you.
the battle is depicted on land and the saint on horseback, yet considering
the blade of his midship oarsman.  While this clumsy lubber was striving to
the canal tapers in size, but for a considerable distance remains of large
the cause of his devious wake in the unnatural stump of his starboard fin.
the creature?  this he?  Oh!  that unfulfilments
the great ignorance of those times, when the true form of the whale was
the knot-holes of the noblest oaks when prostrate, so from the points which
the pod in advance, seemed questionable; for it is not customary for such
the sea, saith ezekiel; hereby, plainly meaning a whale; in truth, some
the sea.  Full in this rapid wake, and many fathoms in the rear, swam a
the solemn churches that preach unconditional inoffensiveness by all to all.
the timber-heads to which the fluke-chains and cables were fastened, that it
the whale's eyes had once occupied, now protruded blind bulbs, horribly
their feet, and standing in a diagonal row, simultaneously pointed their
their glorying crews all over with showers of gore, capsizing Flask's boat and
then I have another idea for you.  If you attentively regard almost any
then over and over slowly revolved like a waning world; turned up the white
this skull is as the side view of a moderately inclined plane resting
thou fill his skin with barbed irons?  or his head with fish-spears?  The
thousand dollars, men! --a bank! --a whole bank!  The bank of England! --Oh, do,
through his spiracle, and this made the sight of him unspeakably
through the spinal canal.  For I believe that much of a man's character will be
throughout on a level base.  But in life --as we have elsewhere seen --this
time economically accelerating his own by the momentary impetus of the
to a strung necklace of dwarfed skulls, all bearing rudimental resemblance
to be borrowing oil on the whale-ground, and however much it may invertedly
to hold on; till at last --owing to the perpendicular strain from the
to the skull proper.  It is a German conceit, that the vertebrae are
torn shreds, followed by strange subterranean commotions in him, which
towards the sky his one beating fin.  So have I seen a bird with clipped wing,
twenty line-of-battle ships, with all their guns, and stores, and men on
unnatural dislocation.  In
up and enchanted in him; he had no voice, save that choking respiration
upheld, the body would at once sink to the bottom.  It so chanced that almost
upon first cutting into him with the spade, the entire length of a corroded
us our coffee, is the Yarman; don't you see that big tin can there alongside
utmost monster of the seas was writhing and wrenching in agony!  Not eight
vain handspikes and crows were brought to bear upon the immovable
valiant chase of this unnearable brute.  The Virgin crowding all sail, made
valuable whale, but he was nearest to them, and the other whales were going
venerable leviathans to be at all social.  Nevertheless, he stuck to their
versions of the Bible use that word itself.  Besides, it would much subtract
vertebrae of which he was inlaying, in a sort of basso-relievo, the beaked
wake, though indeed their back water must have retarded him, because the
was impossible to cast them off.  Meantime everything in the Pequod was
wavingly held by the German.  Impossible! --a lamp-feeder!  Not that, said
we go like three tin kettles at the tail of a mad cougar!  This puts me in
weight of fifty atmospheres.  One whaleman has estimated it at the weight of
weight to an eight day clock.  Suspended?  and to what?  To three bits of
were spilled out, and sailed over by the three flying keels.  Don't be
whale now settled that the submerged ends could not be at all approached,
whale soon ceasing to sound, for some time they remained in that attitude,
whale stays under water, the more he is exhausted.  Because, owing to the
whale's proper brain, you deem it incapable of being adequately charted,
whale, and perilously drew over his swaying
whales that thus sank were old, meagre, and broken-hearted creatures, their
wheel-spokes fly, boys, when you fasten to him that way; and there's danger of
when it shall have ascended again.  It was not long after the sinking of the
when pierced even by so small a point as a harpoon, a deadly drain is at once
where his eyes had been, were beheld.  As strange misgrown masses gather in
whereby when wounded, the blood is in some degree at least instantly shut off
which the city's legends and all the inhabitants asserted to be the identical
while every moment whole tons of ponderosity seemed added to the sinking bulk,
while stretching from them, on both sides, was the foaming swell that he made.
white-bone or swell at his broad muzzle was a dashed one, like the swell
wind I ever knew to blow from astern; but look, did ever whale yaw so
with its side or belly considerably elevated above the surface.  If the only
with such great velocity, moreover,
with the jaundice, or some other infirmity.  Whether this whale belonged to
wonderful comparative smallness of his brain proper is more than compensated
world.  If you unload his skull of its spermy heaps and then take a rear view
wounded arm, cried cruel Flask, pointing to the whale-line near him.  Mind
wrinkled granite hieroglyphics.  But there is no Champollion to decipher the
written a book, spoken a speech?  No, his great genius is declared in his
ye burst a blood-vessel?  Who's that been dropping an anchor overboard --we
ye?  cried Stubb to the body, don't be in such a devil of a hurry to sink!
yourself the truest, though not the most exhilarating conception of what the
