




















     Ain't that queer, now?  But there's no telling, it's the old game --Here goes
     Already we are boldly launched upon the
     But this insult is whittled down to a point only."  But now comes the
     For several days after leaving Nantucket,
     I am the architect, not the builder.  But it is a ponderous task; no ordinary
     It's very queer.  Stop, Stubb; somehow, now, I don't well know whether to go
     Little Flask was one of the wrought ones; made to clinch tight and last
     Mast-head, there!  Look sharp, all of ye!  There are whales hereabouts!  If
     Next morning Stubb accosted Flask.  Such a
     No, sir; not yet, said Stubb, emboldened, I will not tamely be called a
     Some days elapsed, and ice
     When Stubb had departed, Ahab stood for a
     blazes!  he called me ten times a donkey, and piled a lot of jackasses on
     did kick me, and I didn't observe it, I was so taken all aback with his brow,
     for a snooze.  Damn me, it's worth a fellow's while to be born into the
     leg, didn't he?" "Yes, he did," says I. "Well then," says he, "wise Stubb,
     one arm elevated, and holding by a shroud; Captain Ahab stood erect, looking
     that come to pass; ere the Pequod's weedy hull rolls side by side with the
     who have at large or in little, written of the whale.  Run over a few: --The
     your boast, Stubb, that ye were kicked by old Ahab, and made a wise man of.
"Halloa," says I,"what's the matter now, old fellow?" "Look ye here," says
(sperm whale), says Surgeon Beale, A. D.
,
, Linnaeus declares, I hereby separate the whales
--How?  how?  how? --but the only way's
--he would mutter to himself, -- for an old captain like me to be descending
--which I felt, yet whenever I came to look about me in the ship, it seemed
--worse nor a toothache.  Well, well; I don't know what it is, but the Lord
.  It is not my intention, were it in my power, to enter
.  Unfitness to pursue our
.. < chapter xxix 2  ENTER AHAB; TO HIM, STUBB >
.. < chapter xxviii 11  AHAB >
.. < chapter xxx 4  THE PIPE >
.. < chapter xxxi 2  QUEEN MAB >
.. < chapter xxxii 6  CETOLOGY >
.. <p 117 >
.. <p 118 >
.. <p 119 >
.. <p 119 >
.. <p 120 >
.. <p 121 >
.. <p 122 >
.. <p 123 >
.. <p 124 >
.. <p 125 >
.. <p 126 >
.. <p 126 >
.. <p 127 >
.. <p 128 >
.. <p 129 >
.. <p 129 >
.. <p 130 >
.. <p 131 >
Africa, Nantucket, and the pagan harbors most frequented by whalemen; and
Ahab lurchingly paced the planks.
Ahab should be tranquilly laid out --which might hardly come to pass, so he
Ahab.  Some moments passed, during which the thick vapor came from his mouth
Ahasuerus Daggoo, was the Squire of little Flask, who looked like a chess-man
Anacharsis Clootz deputation from all the
And all these subtle agencies, more and more they wrought on Ahab's texture.
April and May, trip home to the wintry, misanthropic woods; even the barest,
Arctic whalers; and which by the means of many radiating side timbers
Author of Miriam Coffin; Olmstead; and the Rev.  T. Cheever.  But to what
Authors of the Bible; Aristotle; Pliny; Aldrovandi; Sir Thomas Browne;
Brisson; Marten; Lacepede; Bonneterre; Desmarest; Baron Cuvier; Frederick
But poorly could I withstand them, much as in other moods I was almost ready
Captain Ahab would probably marshal his forces to descend on the whales,
Cuvier; John Hunter; Owen; Scoresby; Beale; Bennett; J. Ross Browne; the
Flask?  ain't there a small drop
Gesner; Ray; Linnaeus; Rondeletius; Willoughby; Green; Artedi; Sibbald;
Greenland whale is deposed, --the great sperm whale now reigneth!  There are
Greenland whalers sailing out of Hull or London, put in at the Shetland
He kept a whole row of pipes there ready loaded, stuck in a rack, within easy
I do but less than half like it, sir.  Avast!  gritted Ahab between his set
I dreamed he kicked me with it; and when I tried to kick back, upon my soul,
I hereupon offer my own poor endeavors.  I promise nothing complete; because
I say this continual smoking must have been one cause, at least, of his
Indian to be a son of the Prince of the Powers of the Air.  Tashtego was Stubb
Islanders seem to make the best whalemen.  They were nearly all Islanders in
Islands, to receive the full complement of their crew.  Upon the passage
It was so with Ahab; only that now, of late, he seemed so much to live in
Khan of the plank, and a king of the sea, and a great lord of Leviathans was
Leviathans had personally and hereditarily affronted him; and therefore it
Listen to what the best and latest authorities have laid down.  No branch of
Martha's Vineyard, where there still exists the last remnant of a village of
Nevertheless, the old sea-traditions, the immemorial credulities, popularly
Old age is always wakeful; as if, the longer linked with life, the less man
Owen ever saw living whales; and but one of them was a real professional
Pequod was only making a passage now; not regularly cruising; nearly all
Railroads.  The same, I say, because in all these cases the native American
Reference to nearly all the leviathanic allusions in the great poets of past
Remember what I say; be kicked by him; account his kicks honors; and on no
Scoresby, A. D.
So utterly lost was he to all sense of reverence for the many marvels of their
Stubb," I thought I might as well fall to kicking the pyramid again.  But I
System of Nature, A. D.
Vineyarder, a Cape man.  Now, it being Christmas when the ship shot from out
What am I that I should essay to hook the nose of this leviathan!  The awful
Zoology is so much involved as that which is entitled Cetology, says Captain
a common pitch pine leg he kicked with, was it?  No, you were kicked by a
a plenty; and so in some small degree, with cetology, or the science of
a word he spoke; nor did his officers say aught to him; though by all their
about half an inch or so, into the plank.  His bone leg steadied in that hole;
about the first thing babies do, and that's a sort of queer, too.  Damn me,
accompanied by his boat-steerer or harpooneer, who in certain conjunctures
account kick back; for you can't help yourself, wise Stubb.  Don't you see
acquainted with, still I ascribed this --and rightly ascribed it --to the
against all warrantry to
all his barbaric virtues, and erect as a giraffe, moved about the decks in
all other hunted whales, his is an unwritten life.  Now the various species of
all the pomp of six feet five in his socks.  There was a corporeal humility
allusion was made to it, especially by the mates.  But once Tashtego's
and also his pipe.  lighting the pipe at the binnacle lamp and planting the
and families....  Utter confusion exists among the historians of this animal
and icebergs all astern, the Pequod now went rolling through the bright Quito
and the insertion into it, of the ivory heel.  Ah!  Stubb, thou did'st not
angels, and beat his tambourine in glory; called a coward here, hailed a
any human thing supposed to be complete, must for that very reason infallibly
as the harpooneers were flingers of javelins.  And since in this famous
ashore or afloat, is terribly infected with the nameless miseries of the
at last. --Down, dog, and kennel!  Starting at the unforeseen concluding
attempt.  Those books are Beale's and Bennett's; both in their time surgeons
back and strike him, or --what's that? -- down here on my knees and pray for
barnacled hulls of the leviathan; at the outset it is but well to attend to a
battering seas.  Now these three mates --Starbuck, Stubb, and Flask, were
bay on his native coast.  And never having been anywhere in the world but in
be faulty.  I shall not pretend to a minute anatomical description of the
became still less and less a recluse; as if, when the ship had sailed from
before sailed out of Nantucket, had never ere this laid eye upon wild Ahab.
before you, and at the same time, in the remotest degree succeed in the
before.  Poor Alabama boy!  On the grim Pequod's forecastle, ye shall ere
begone, or I'll clear the world of thee!  As he said this, Ahab advanced upon
beside him.  As for the residue of the Pequod's company, be it said, that at
between a living thump and a dead thump.  That's what makes a blow from the
birth-mark on him from crown to sole.  So powerfully did the whole grim aspect
bone of the sperm whale's jaw.  Aye, he was dismasted off Japan, said the
bottom of the sea after them; to have one's hands among the unspeakable
but all things are queer, come to think of 'em.  But that's against my
but with some cautiousness dropt it to its place, for fear of disturbing
by any means the largest of the whales.  Yet, owing to the long priority of
by what a grey Manxman insinuated, an old sepulchral man, who, having never
calculated to allay these colorless misgivings, and induce confidence and
cane.  Yes," thinks I,"it was only a playful cudgelling --in fact, only a
cheek bones, and black rounding eyes --for an Indian, Oriental in their
cheerfulness in every presentment of the voyage.  Three better, more likely
cherish such emotions.  For though the harpooneers, with the great body of
chief mate, had selected for his squire.  But Queequeg is already known.  Next
chimney hag.  seeing he wasn't going to stop saying over his "wise Stubb, wise
classification of the constituents of a chaos, nothing less is here essayed.
clothes all rumpled and tumbled, and the sheets down at the foot, and the
clout --what do you think, I saw? --why thunder alive, man, his stern was stuck
coal-black
come to beg truce of a fortress.  Curious to tell, this imperial negro,
come to me that this ivory leg had at sea been fashioned from the polished
continent of men, but each Isolato living on a separate continent of his
could certainly say.  By some tacit consent, throughout the voyage little or no
coverlid almost tied into knots, and the pillow a sort of frightful hot, as
crews from the hardy peasants of those rocky shores.  In like manner, the
crippled way.  Some considerating touch of humanity was in him; for at times
cursed pyramid -- so confoundedly contradictory was it all, all the while, I
days, will satisfy you that the Greenland whale, without one rival, was to
deck sentinelled the slumbers of the band below; and when if a rope was to be
deck, and pretty close to the mizen shrouds, there was an auger hole, bored
deck.  As the sky grew less gloomy; indeed, began to grow a little genial, he
deep; but soon we shall be lost in its unshored, harborless immensities.  Ere
did he put forth the faint blossom of a look, which, in any other man, would
did," says I --"right here it was." "Very good," says he --"he used his ivory
divided into wrought nails and cut nails; so mankind may be similarly divided.
dog, sir.  Then be called ten times a donkey, and a mule, and an ass, and
dreams would have been of the crunching teeth of sharks.  But once, the mood
each other at the watches, and for aught that could be seen to the contrary,
elemental strife at sea.  Yet, this wild hint seemed inferentially negatived,
employed in the American whale fishery, are Americans born, though pretty
engineering forces employed in the construction of the American Canals and
ere long the old man would emerge, griping at the iron banister, to help his
eternal August of the Tropic.  The warmly cool, clear, ringing, perfumed,
exclamation of the so suddenly scornful old man, Stubb was speechless a
face; in all the nameless regal overbearing dignity of some mighty woe.  Ere
fashion, to swim off into the air.  I snored; rolled over; and there I was
few moments I hardly noted that not a little of this overbearing grimness was
fierce uniqueness of the very nature of that wild Scandinavian vocation in
firmest fortitude, a determinate unsurrenderable
fish for the fun of it; and a three years' voyage round Cape Horn was only a
fishery as with the American army and military and merchant navies, and the
fishery, each mate or headsman, like a Gothic Knight of old, is always
follow.  It is some systematized exhibition of the whale in his broad genera,
found, and they were every one of them Americans; a Nantucketer, a
foundations, ribs, and very pelvis of the world; this is a fearful thing.
from the cabin with orders so sudden and peremptory, that after all it was
from the fish.  But of my own knowledge, I know that down to the year
from, the cabin to the planks.  It feels like going down into one's tomb,
full of marlinspikes, with the points out.  Says I, on second thoughts,"I
fullest of trouble.  What business have I with this pipe?  This thing that is
generic name of Gay-Headers.  Tashtego's long, lean, sable hair, his high
grave; where such as ye sleep between shrouds, to use ye to the filling one
great glory to be slapped by a queen, and made garter-knights of; but, be
great man, and with a beautiful ivory leg, Stubb.  It's an honor; I consider
greatest joke of the dream, Flask.  While I was battering away at the
greybeards will oftenest leave their berths to visit the night-cloaked deck.
grooves out the bark from top to bottom, ere running off into the soil,
guess I won't kick you, old fellow." "Wise Stubb," said he,"wise Stubb;" and
had only just lifted my foot for it, when he roared out, "Stop that kicking!"
hairs, and continuing right down one side of his tawny scorched face and neck,
hand, Flask, fifty times more savage to bear than a blow from a cane.  The
harpooneer and whaleman.  I mean Captain Scoresby.  On the separate subject of
has to do with aught that looks like death.  among sea-commanders, the old
hauled upon the forecastle, the sailors flung it not rudely down, as by day,
have I been unconsciously toiling, not pleasuring, --aye, and ignorantly
have soon flowered out in a smile.
having now led for many years the bold life of the fishery in the ships of
he could be well likened to the short, square timber known by that name in
he soliloquized at last, withdrawing the tube, this smoking no longer
he;"let's argue the insult.  Captain Ahab kicked ye, didn't he?" "Yes, he
headsman each of them belonged.  first of all was queequeg, whom Starbuck, the
heaped up --flaked up, with rose-water snow.  The starred and stately nights
heightened at times by the ragged Elijah's diabolical incoherences uninvitedly
her harbor, for a space we had biting Polar weather, though all the time
hero there!
high, broad form, seemed made of solid bronze, and shaped in an unalterable
him with such overbearing terrors in his aspect, that Stubb involuntarily
him?  Yes, that was the thought coming up in me; but it would be the first
his claims, and the profound ignorance which, till some seventy years back,
his ears were two golden hoops, so large that the sailors called them
his made him a little waggish in the matter of whales; he followed these
his quarter-deck.  There seemed no sign of common bodily illness about him,
his stern to me, bent over, and dragging up a lot of seaweed he had for a
his wearied mates, seeking repose within six inches of his ivory heel, such
home, nothing but the dead wintry bleakness of the sea had then kept him so
homewards, they drop them there again.  How it is, there is no telling, but
humorousness, hinted that if Captain Ahab was pleased to walk the planks,
hunted in the wake of the great whales of the sea; the unerring harpoon of
ignorance to this present day still reigns in all but some few scientific
in looking up at him; and a white man standing before him seemed a white flag
in my hammock!  Now, what do you think of that dream, Flask?  I don't know;
in quick and constant puffs, which blew back again into his face.  How now,
incomplete indications but serve to torture us naturalists.  Thus speak of
inserted in it, served to brace the ship against the icy concussions of those
instant the ship shot by the bubble the sinking pipe made.  With slouched hat,
into the inquiry as to the true method of dividing the cetacea into groups
invested the then fabulous and utterly unknown sperm-whale, and which
invested this old Manxman with preternatural powers of discernment.  So that
is my twelfth -- So here goes again.  But how's that?  didn't he call me a dog?
isles of the sea, and all the ends of the earth, accompanying Old Ahab in the
it an honor.  Listen, wise Stubb.  In old England the greatest lords think it
it seems a sort of foolish to me, tho'.  May be, may be.  But it's made a
its intolerable weather behind us.  It was one of those less lowering, but
jolly joke that lasted that length of time.  As a carpenter's nails are
keep me from catching it.  He's full of riddles; I wonder what he goes into
kept muttering it all the time, a sort of eating of his own gums like a
kick?"  By the lord, Flask, I had no sooner said that, than he turned round
knew nothing and says nothing of the great sperm whale, compared with which
know Ahab then.  Am I a cannon-ball, Stubb, said Ahab, that thou wouldst
knowledge of the cetacea.  A field strewn with thorns.  All these
largeness, but Antarctic in their glittering expression --all this
last sunny deck, he seemed as unnecessary there as another mast.  But the
late, calling a sailor of the watch, he sent him below for his ivory stool,
latitude which we sailed, gradually leaving that merciless winter, and all
layer were piled upon his brow, as ever all clouds choose the loftiest peaks
leaving the tree still greenly alive, but branded.  Whether that mark was born
letter-sorter in the Post-office is equal to it.  To grope down into the
liberally provides the brains, the rest of the world as generously supplying
libraries and sailed through oceans; I have had to do with whales with these
like these, he usually abstained from patrolling the quarter-deck; because to
likewise, against all mortal tribulations, Stubb's tobacco smoke might have
little respond to the playful allurings of that girlish air.  More than once
living member --that makes the living insult, my little man.  And thinks I to
loading them again to be in readiness anew.  For, when Stubb dressed, instead
long see him, beating his tambourine; prelusive of the eternal time, when
long, from his first visit in the air, he withdrew into his cabin.  But after
long.  They called him King-Post on board of the Pequod; because, in form,
majestic bulk and mystic ways; and so dead to anything like an apprehension
man, but I was frightened.  Such a phiz!  But, somehow, next moment I was over
many of her most daring harpooneers.  In the fishery, they usually go by the
mast without coming home for it.  he has a quiver of 'em.  I was struck with
matter almost indispensable to a thorough appreciative understanding of the
me by the shoulders, and slews me round.  "What are you 'bout?" says he.  Slid!
me?  I don't stand right on my legs.  Coming afoul of that old man has a sort
meant for sereneness, to send up mild white vapors among mild white hairs,
melancholy rapidity, that as I mounted to the deck at the call of the forenoon
memory of their absent conquering Earls, the golden helmeted suns!  For
memory shot her crystals as the clear ice most forms of noiseless twilights.
merely lend new spells and potencies to the outward world.  Inward they turned
minutest gestures and expressions, they plainly showed the uneasy, if not
moment; then said excitedly, I am not used to be spoken to that way, sir;
momentous men.  They it was who by universal prescription commanded three of
more curious, Flask--you know how curious all dreams are-- through all this rage
more special leviathanic revelations and allusions of all sorts which are to
mould, like Cellini's cast Perseus.  Threading its way out from among his grey
muttered --then, whoever should do that last office for the dead, would find a
muttered Stubb, as he found himself descending the cabin-scuttle.
my little man, I kicked my leg right off!  And then, presto!  Ahab seemed a
myself all the while, mind, while I was stubbing my silly toes against that
nearly all the officers are.  Herein it is the same with the American whale
necessarily small; but so far as it goes, it is of excellent quality,
negro-savage, with a lion-like tread --an Ahasuerus to behold.  Suspended from
never speak to him, whatever he says.  Halloa!  what's that he shouts?  Hark!
no white sailor seriously contradicted him when he said that if ever Captain
noise; hinting something indistinctly and hesitatingly about a globe of tow,
nor of the recovery from any.  He looked like a man cut away from the stake,
not among torn iron-grey locks like mine.  I'll smoke no more-- He tossed the
not till he was full forty years old did Ahab become that way branded, and
nothing above hatches was seen of Captain Ahab.  The mates regularly relieved
now; and thus chase away, for that one interval, the clouds that layer upon
numberless mortals who have died exhaling it; and as in time of the cholera,
object here is simply to project the draught of a systematization of cetology.
of Ahab affect me, and the livid brand which streaked it, that for the first
of Tisbury, in Martha's Vineyard.  A short, stout, ruddy young fellow, very
of any possible danger from encountering them; that in his poor opinion, the
of first putting his legs into his trowsers, he put his pipe into his mouth.
of something queer about that, eh?  a white whale--did ye mark that, man?  Look
of the tusks of the narwhale.  How could one look at Ahab then, seated on that
of them ever come back.  Black Little Pip --he never did --oh, no!  he went
of turned me wrong side out.  By the Lord, I must have been dreaming, though
old Gay-Head Indian once; but like his dismasted craft, he shipped another
once; why, the end of it --the foot part --what a small sort of end it is;
only two books in being which at all pretend to put the living sperm whale
operated as a sort of disinfecting agent.  The third mate was Flask, a native
or elbowed in the assault; and moreover, as there generally subsists between
or taking away one particle from their compacted aged robustness.  His whole
original matter touching the sperm whale to be found in their volumes is
outline one for the present, hereafter to be filled in all its departments by
overflowing, redundant days, were as crystal goblets of Persian sherbet,
owing to the barbaric white leg upon which he partly stood.  It had previously
own.  Yet now, federated along one keel, what a set these Isolatoes were!  An
owners uncommonly heedful of what manner of men they shipped; daggoo retained
pace he was measuring the ship from taffrail to mainmast, Stubb, the odd
painful, consciousness of being under a troubled master-eye.  And not only
peculiar disposition; for every one knows that this earthly air, whether
pequod to lay the world's grievances before that bar from which not very many
persuasiveness of the pleasant, holiday weather we came to, seemed gradually
pivot-hole, or seated upon an ivory stool he had; or heavily walking the
plain they but commanded vicariously.  Yes, their supreme lord and dictator
preliminaries to settle.  first: the uncertain, unsettled condition of this
prevail, habitually, the silent steersman would watch the cabin-scuttle; and
principles.  Think not, is my eleventh commandment; and sleep when you can,
proclamation.  This is Charing Cross; hear ye!  good people all, --the
proud warrior hunters, who, in quest of the great New England moose, had
provides him with a fresh lance, when the former one has been badly twisted,
pugnacious concerning whales, who somehow seemed to think that the great
pyramid, a sort of badger-haired old merman, with a hump on his back, takes
pyramid, and I, like a blazing fool, kept kicking at it.  But what was still
queer dream, King-Post, I never had.  You know the old man's ivory leg, well
reach of his hand; and, whenever he turned in, he smoked them all out in
recurring to me, with a subtle energy I could not have before conceived of.
red men, which has long supplied the neighboring island of Nantucket with
requiring only a little circumvention and some small application of time and
research in the unfathomable waters.  Impenetrable veil covering our
retreated.  I was never served so before without giving a hard blow for it,
retreats and whale-ports; this usurpation has been every way complete.
ring-bolts, and would talk of securing the top-sail halyards to them.  In his
row?  It's not a real leg, only a false leg."  And there's a mighty difference
ruggedest, most thunder-cloven old oak will at least send forth some few green
running away from it to the southward; and by every degree and minute of
say, I was thinking to myself, "what's his leg now, but a cane --a whalebone
science of Cetology is in the very vestibule attested by the fact, that in
scoured, bow in hand, the aboriginal forests of the main.  But no longer
sea-officers and men, each in his own different way, could not readily be
secluded.  And, by and by, it came to pass, that he was almost continually in
second mate, came up from below, and with a certain unassured, deprecating
seducing nights.  But all the witcheries of that unwaning weather did not
seemed haughty dames in jewelled velvets, nursing at home in lonely pride, the
senior, an old Gay-Head Indian among the crew, superstitiously asserted that
sent for, to the great quarter-deck on high, he was bid strike in with
sharks and shad, alewives and herring, against Linnaeus's express edict, were
shivers ran over me.  Reality outran apprehension; Captain Ahab stood upon
sleeping man, 'twas hard to choose between such winsome days and such
smoking to windward all the while; to windward, and with such nervous
snuffing in the trail of the wild beasts of the woodland, Tashtego now
so that there was little or nothing, out of himself, to employ or excite Ahab,
some folks ashore call a conscience; it's a kind of Tic-Dolly-row they say
some people go about with a camphorated handkerchief to their mouths; so,
some quarters it still remains a moot point whether a whale be a fish.  In his
somehow.  It flashed like a bleached bone.  What the devil's the matter with
soothes.  Oh, my pipe!  hard must it go with me if thy charm be gone!  Here
spring, which, at sea, almost perpetually reigns on the threshold of the
sprouts, to welcome such glad-hearted visitants; so Ahab did, in the end, a
stern?  Well, the best thing you can do, Flask, is to let that old man alone;
steward, tell me that of a morning he always finds the old man's hammock
still found dividing the possession of the same seas with the Leviathan.  The
still grey and gloomy enough mornings of the transition, when with a fair wind
still lighted pipe into the sea.  The fire hissed in the waves; the same
stool on the weather side of the deck, he sat and smoked.  In old Norse times,
straight out beyond the ship's ever-pitching prow.  There was an infinity of
straight, lofty trunk of a great tree, when the upper lightning
subsequent laborers.  As no better man advances to take this matter in hand,
succession, lighting one from the other to the end of the chapter; then
sufficiently proclaimed him an inheritor of the unvitiated blood of those
superstitions of some of the earlier Puritans, and half believed this wild
take him fore and aft, he's about the queerest old man Stubb ever sailed
tame merchant-ship companies which my previous experiences had made me
tauntings in Job might well appal me.  Will he (the leviathan) make a covenant
tawny brawn of his lithe snaky limbs, you would almost have credited the
tearingly darts down it, and without wrenching a single twig, peels and
teeth, and violently moving away, as if to avoid some passionate temptation.
that I was in, I somehow seemed to be thinking to myself, that after all, it
that I would now fain put before you.  Yet is it no easy task.  The
that for, I should like to know?  Who's made appointments with him in the hold?
that morning, he was every day visible to the crew; either standing in his
that pyramid?"  With that, he all of a sudden seemed somehow, in some queer
that that's bloody on his mind.  But, mum; he comes this way.
that, but moody stricken Ahab stood before them with a crucifixion in his
the Greenland or right-whale, he is the best existing authority.  But Scoresby
the Greenland whale is almost unworthy mentioning.  And here be it said, that
the Greenland whale is an usurper upon the throne of the seas.  He is not even
the Pequod's boats as headsmen.  In that grand order of battle in which
the Pequod, Isolatoes too, I call such, not acknowledging the common
the after hold for, every night, as Dough-Boy tells me he suspects; what's
the air; but, as yet, for all that he said, or perceptibly did, on the at
the crew, were a far more barbaric, heathenish, and motley set than any of the
the fright.  "What am I about?" says I at last.  "And what business is that of
the muscles.  No small number of these whaling seamen belong to the Azores,
the now sacred retreat of the cabin.  Every time I ascended to the deck from my
the open air, that truly speaking, his visits were more to the cabin, than
the present day not one in two of the many thousand men before the mast
the seclusion of the sea, became almost a perturbation.  This was strangely
the second mate's squire.  Third among the harpooneers was Daggoo, a gigantic,
the ship was rushing through the water with a vindictive sort of leaping and
the singular posture he maintained.  Upon each side of the Pequod's quarter
the son fitly replacing the infallible arrow of the sires.  To look at the
the thrones of the sea-loving Danish kings were fabricated, saith tradition,
the twenty-four; and he don't sleep then.  Didn't that Dough-Boy, the
the two, a close intimacy and friendliness; it is therefore but meet, that in
the whale, the great Cuvier, and John Hunter, and Lesson, those lights of
their long keen whaling spears, they were as a picked trio of lancers; even
their slumbering shipmates; when this sort of steady quietude would begin to
them the monarch of the seas.  But the time has at last come for a new
then it came upon him, not in the fury of any mortal fray, but in an
then, no one could say nay; but there might be some way of muffling the
there's something on his mind, as sure as there must be something on a deck
these three headsmen were as captains of companies.  Or, being armed with
they seemed to be the only commanders of the ship; only they sometimes issued
this narrow scuttle, to go to my grave-dug berth.  So, almost every
this place we set down who the Pequod's harpooneers were, and to what
this plaguey juggling thinks over by day-light.
though a baked brick had been on it?  A hot old man!  I guess he's got what
though mostly confined to scientific description.  As yet, however, the sperm
three chief officers of the ship, the mates, which was most forcibly
till it disappeared in his clothing, you saw a slender rod-like mark, lividly
time I ever did pray.  It's queer; very queer; and he's queer too; aye,
to English South-Sea whale-ships, and both exact and reliable men.  The
to charm him from his mood.  For, as when the red-cheeked, dancing girls,
to pile themselves upon.  Nevertheless, ere long, the warm, warbling
to smile at the solemn whimsicalities of that outlandish prophet of the
to stash it; so here goes to hammock again; and in the morning, I'll see how
top of that!  He might as well have kicked me, and done with it.  Maybe he
tripod of bones, without bethinking him of the royalty it symbolized?  For a
trouble in order to kill and boil.  This ignorant, unconscious fearlessness of
twenty-four hours, when the watches of the night were set, and the band on
ultimate generalizing purpose all these have written, the above cited extracts
upon the soul, especially when the still mild hours of eve came on; then,
various species, or-- in this place at least --to much of any description.  My
visible hands; I am in earnest; and I will try.  There are some
visible; for my first vague disquietude touching the unknown captain, now in
wad me that fashion?  But go thy ways; I had forgot.  Below to thy nightly
was Tashtego, an unmixed Indian from Gay Head, the most westerly promontory of
was a sort of point of honor with him, to destroy them whenever encountered.
was not much of an insult, that kick from ahab.  "Why," thinks I,"what's the
was on him too deep for common regardings; and as with heavy, lumber-like
was there, though hitherto unseen by any eyes not permitted to penetrate into
watch, so soon as I levelled my glance towards the taffrail, foreboding
watches below, I instantly gazed aft to mark if any strange face were
whale, scientific or poetic, lives not complete in any literature.  Far above
whaleboning that he gave me --not a base kick.  Besides," thinks I,"look at it
whales need some sort of popular comprehensive classification, if only an easy
whales.  many are the men, small and great, old and new, landsmen and seamen,
whaling preparatives needing supervision the mates were fully competent to,
wharves.  But whatever it was of apprehensiveness or uneasiness --to call it so
what have you to complain of?  Didn't he kick with right good will?  it wasn't
when it cracks.  He aint in his bed now, either, more than three hours out of
when the fire has overrunningly wasted all the limbs without consuming them,
where the outward bound Nantucket whalers frequently touch to augment their
whereas, if a broad footed farmer kicked me, there's a devilish broad insult.
which I had so abandonedly embarked.  But it was especially the aspect of the
whiffs, as if, like the dying whale, my final jets were the strongest and
while leaning over the bulwarks; and then, as had been usual with him of
whitish.  It resembled that perpendicular seam sometimes made in the
wilfulness, in the fixed and fearless, forward dedication of that glance.  Not
will show.  Of the names in this list of whale authors, only those following
wise man of me, Flask.  D'ye see Ahab standing there, sideways looking over the
with him, or whether it was the scar left by some desperate wound, no one
with thee?  Behold the hope of him is vain!  But I have swam through
with.  How he flashed at me! --his eyes like powder-pans!  is he mad?  Anyway
wondrous whale was but a species of magnified mouse, or at least water-rat,
world, if only to fall right asleep.  And now that I think of it, that's
would have been the reverberating crack and din of that bony step, that their
ye see a white one, split your lungs for him!  What d'ye think of that now,
ye--there's something special in the wind.  Stand by for it, Flask.  Ahab has
yet of books there are
yours, I should like to know, Mr. Humpback?  Do you want a
youth Daggoo had voluntarily shipped on board of a whaler, lying in a lonely
zoology and anatomy.  Nevertheless, though of real knowledge there be little,
