








     But here is an artist.  He desires to paint you the dreamiest, shadiest,
     Call me Ishmael.  Some years ago--never mind how
     Entering that gable-ended Spouter-Inn,
     I stuffed a shirt or two into my old
     Right and left, the streets take you waterward.  Its extreme down-town is
     This is my substitute for pistol and ball.  With a philosophical flourish
-- The Spouter-Inn: --Peter Coffin.  Coffin? --Spouter? --Rather ominous in that
--the Tyre of this Carthage; --the place where the first dead American whale
.. < chapter I 2  LOOMINGS >
.. < chapter ii 24  THE CARPET-BAG >
.. < chapter iii 14  THE SPOUTER-INN >
.. <p 10 >
.. <p 10 >
.. <p 11 >
.. <p 12 >
.. <p 13 >
.. <p 14 >
.. <p 15 >
.. <p 16 >
.. <p 2 >
.. <p 3 >
.. <p 4 >
.. <p 5 >
.. <p 6 >
.. <p 6 >
.. <p 7 >
.. <p 8 >
.. <p 9 >
Affghanistan.  Though I cannot tell why it was exactly that those stage
Any subsequent copies of this data must include this notice  
Bedford.  It was on a Saturday night in December.  Much was I disappointed
Bulkington!  Bulkington!  where's Bulkington?  and darted out of the house in
Cato throws himself upon his sword; I quietly take to the ship.  There is
Commodore, or a Captain, or a Cook.  I abandon the glory and distinction of
Crossed Harpoons, and The Sword-Fish? --this, then, must needs be the sign
Crossing this dusky entry, and on through yon low-arched way --cut through
Dives, this is more wonderful than that an iceberg should be moored to one of
England hags, had endeavored to delineate chaos bewitched.  But by dint of
Etymology  (Supplied by a late consumptive usher to a grammar school.)
Extracts (supplied by a sub-sub-librarian.)
Fill to this mark, and your charge is but a penny; to this a penny more;
For by how much the more pains ye take to please the world,
He loved to dust his old grammars; it somehow mildly reminded him of his mortality.
He was ever  dusting his old lexicons and grammars, with a queer handkerchief,
How then is this?  Are the green fields gone?  What do they here?  But look!
I told him that I never liked to sleep two in a bed; that if I should ever do
Iceland --no fire at all  --the landlord said he couldn't afford it.  Nothing
Ishmael, said I at last; don't you hear?  get away from before the door;
It was prepared by Professor Eugene F. Irey at the University of Colorado.
It will be seen that this mere painstaking burrower and grubworm of a poor 
Niagara but a cataract of sand, would you travel your thousand miles to see
No.  They must get just as nigh the water as they possibly can without falling
One young fellow in a green box coat, addressed himself to these dumplings in
Pacific.  Quitting the good city of old Manhatto, I duly arrived in New
Parliament sitting in Tophet.  A hundred black faces turned round in their
Prairies in June,
Preliminary Matter.  
Projecting from the further angle of the room stands a dark-looking den --the
Rensselaers, or Randolphs, or Hardicanutes.  And more than all, if just
Saco.  What is the chief element he employs?  There stand his trees, each with
So fare thee well, poor devil of a Sub-Sub, whose commentator I am.
Some were storied weapons.  With this once long lance, now wildly elbowed,
Supper 'll be ready directly.  I sat down on an old wooden settle, carved all
Supper over, the company went back to the bar-room, when, knowing not what
Surely all this is not without meaning.  And still deeper the meaning of that
Testament?  Do you think the archangel Gabriel thinks anything the less of me,
The original iron entered
The pale Ushei{rthreadbare} in coat, heart, body, and brain; I see him now.
Then the wild and distant seas where he rolled his island bulk; the
Therefore you must not, in every case at least, take the higgledy-piggledy
They had just landed from their boat, and this was the first house they
This text of Melville's Moby-Dick is based on the Hendricks House edition.
Thou belongest to that hopeless, sallow tribe which no wine of this world will 
United States.  Whaling Voyage by one Ishmael.  Bloody Battle in
Whitehall northward.  What do you see?--Posted like silent sentinels all
Would that I could clear out Hampton Court and the Tuileries for ye!  But
Yet here they all unite.  Tell me, does the magnetic virtue of the needles of
a choice resulting from my own unbiased freewill and discriminating judgment.
a dive.  Strange!  Nothing will content them but the extremest limit of the
a harpooneer, then your objections indefinitely multiply.  Nor was there any
a hollow trunk, as if a hermit and a crucifix were within; and here sleeps
a little plan that had occurred to me just previous to the entrance of the
a most direful manner.  My boy, said the landlord, you'll have the
a sailor, because of the wholesome exercise and pure air of the forecastle
a whalin', so you'd better get used to that sort of thing.
about
about that harpooneer. -- I shan't sleep with him.  I'll try the bench here.
accommodated with a room, received for answer that his house was full --not a
act of paying is perhaps the most uncomfortable infliction that the two
afternoon.  Go from Corlears Hook to Coenties Slip, and from thence, by
all that region.  Should you ever be athirst in the great American desert,
almost drive beneath it.  within are shabby shelves, ranged round with old
altogether unwarranted.  But what most puzzled and confounded you was a long,
an ash-box in the porch.  Ha!  thought I, ha, as the flying particles almost
an unknown stranger, in a strange inn, in a strange town, and that stranger
and any publications resulting from analysis of this data must
and bear it.  But even this wears off in time.  What of it, if some old hunks
and cheerless.  I knew no one in the place.  With anxious grapnels I had
and easy parts in genteel comedies, and jolly parts in farces --though I
and grow convivial upon tears; and say to them bluntly, with full eyes and empty 
and it's a plaguy rough board here --feeling of the knots and notches.  But
and jolly, again thought I, pausing one moment to watch the broad glare in
and making refugees of long-pampered  Gabriel, Michael, and Raphael, against
and put a corn-cob into his mouth, and yet that would not keep out the
and requires a strong decoction of Seneca and the Stoics to enable you to grin
and run away with by a whale, years afterward slain off the Cape of Blanco.
and so on to the full glass --the Cape Horn measure, which you may gulp down
another cursed Jonah (by which name indeed they called him), bustles a
are in the country; in some high land of lakes.  Take almost any path you
around the town, stand thousands upon thousands of mortal men fixed in ocean
as affording a glancing bird's eye view of what has been promiscuously said,
as the poets here appearing, these extracts are solely valuable or entertaining,
as you gazed, and wondered what monstrous cannibal and savage could ever have
ashore.  To be sure they all sleep together in one apartment, but you have
at once; and since the sea-gods had ordained that he should soon become my
at the whales, in order to discover when they were nigh enough to risk a
away at the space between his legs.  he was trying his hand at a ship under
away unobserved, and I saw no more of him till he became my comrade on the
bar-- a rude attempt at a right whale's head.  Be that how it may, there
be.
beards stiff with icicles, they seemed an eruption of bears from Labrador.
because I promptly and respectfully obey that old hunks in that particular
bed unoccupied.  But avast, he added, tapping his forehead, you haint no
bedwards.  Suppose now, he should tumble in upon me at midnight --how could I
before I did.
being cunningly presented to me under various disguises, induced me to set
black-letter, thou reasonest well.  Yes, these eyes are windows, and this
blackness of darkness, and the weeping and wailing and teeth-gnashing
blackness, not houses, on either hand, and here and there a candle, like a
blanket.  I thought so.  All right; take a seat.  Supper? --you want supper?
body of mine is the house.  What a pity they didn't stop up the chinks and the
boisterous something about everything connected with that famous old island,
breezes, which a few hours previous were out of sight of land.  Look at the
brown and burnt, making his white teeth dazzling by the contrast; while in
but as for me, I am tormented with an everlasting itch for things remote.  I
but two dismal tallow candles, each in a winding sheet.  We were fain to
but with whom one sometimes loves to sit, and feel poor-devilish, too;
button up our monkey jackets, and hold to our lips cups of scalding tea with
by a pool in the stream.  There is magic in it.  Let the most absent-minded
by so much the more shall ye for ever go thankless!
by wharves as Indian isles by coral reefs--commerce surrounds it with her surf.
came such fervent rays, that it seemed to have melted the packed snow and ice
came to a smoky light proceeding from a low, wide building, the door of which
can better answer than any one else.  And, doubtless, my going on this whaling
candle moving about in a tomb.  At this hour of the night, of the last day of
cannot tell why this was exactly; yet, now that I recall all the
carpet-bag, tucked it under my arm, and started for Cape Horn and the
centre of the picture over three blue, dim, perpendicular lines floating in a
cetology.  Far from it.  As touching the ancient authors generally, as well 
cheapest, if not the cheeriest inns.  Such dreary streets!  Blocks of
cheerfully we consign ourselves to perdition!  Finally, I always go to sea as
chief among these motives was the overwhelming idea of the great whale
choked me, are these ashes from that destroyed city, Gomorrah?  But The
circumstances, I think I can see a little into the springs and motives which
clean over the craft, is in the enormous act of impaling himself upon the
coffer-dam.  I have seldom seen such brawn in a man.  His face was deeply
combat of the four primal elements. --It's a blasted heath. --It's a Hyperborean
come to the conclusion that such an idea, however wild, might not be
concerned), I will here venture upon a little description of him.  He stood
considering that we so earnestly believe money to be the root of all earthly
content.  Again, I always go to sea as a sailor, because they make a point of
country schoolmaster, making the tallest boys stand in awe of you.  The
crannies though, and thrust in a little lint here and there.  But it's too
crazy to go to sea?  Why upon your first voyage as a passenger, did you
crowds of water-gazers there.  Circumambulate the city of a dreamy Sabbath
dark complexioned harpooneer.  At any rate, I made up my mind that if it
decanters, bottles, flasks; and in those jaws of swift destruction, like
decidedly objectionable, why rather than wander further about a strange town
deck.  For as in this world, head winds are far more prevalent than winds
defaced, that in the unequal cross-lights by which you viewed it, it was
degree, some time or other, cherish very nearly the same feelings towards the
deliriums and death.  Abominable are the tumblers into which he pours his
devil of a Sub-Sub appears to have gone through the long Vaticans and 
dismantled masts alone visible; and an exasperated whale, purposing to spring
does it not bear a faint resemblance to a gigantic fish?  even the great
don't be too particular.  With halting steps I paced the streets, and passed
don't--he eats nothing but steaks, and likes 'em rare.  The devil he does,
down lengthwise along the line of the equator; yea, ye
dreary street shouldering my bag, and comparing the gloom towards the north
drinks the tepid tears of orphans.  But no more of this blubbering now, we are
earthly reason why I as a sailor should sleep two in a bed, more than anybody
else to do with myself, I resolved to spend the rest of the evening as a
else; for sailors no more sleep two in a bed at sea, than bachelor Kings do
enough.  So saying he procured the plane; and with his old silk handkerchief
entered.  No wonder, then, that they made a straight wake for the whale's
ever warm; and for whom even Pale Sherry would be too rosy-strong;
extensive performances.  I take it that this part of the bill must have run
eyes, and begin to be over conscious of my lungs, I do not mean to have it
feet a-going, and he will infallibly lead you to water, if water there be in
fifty years ago did Nathan Swain kill fifteen whales between a sunrise and a
filled with dusty rarities gathered from this wide world's remotest nooks.
first dusting the bench, vigorously set to planing away at my bed, the while
first you almost thought some ambitious young artist, in the time of the New
five of us were summoned to our meal in an adjoining room.  It was cold as
followed the streets that took me waterward, for there, doubtless, were the
following before me in New Bedford, ere I could embark for my destined port,
foot against the flinty projections, because from hard, remorseless
for a shilling.  Upon entering the place I found a number of young seamen
forth, partly laden with imported cobble-stones --so goes the story --to throw
from astern (that is, if you never violate the Pythagorean maxim), so for
from before the house, for everywhere else the congealed frost lay ten inches
from deliberately stepping into the street, and methodically knocking
from lanes and alleys, streets and avenues, --north, east, south, and west.
from the docks, and heard a forlorn creaking in the air; and looking up,
full sail, but he didn't make much headway, I thought.  At last some four or
full six feet in height, with noble shoulders, and a chest like a
further adorning it with his jack-knife, stooping over and diligently working
gathered about a table, examining by a dim light divers specimens of
give him much joy.  His voice at once announced
glasses deceitfully tapered downwards to a cheating bottom.  Parallel
glasses, and in not altogether unpleasant sadness i{give} it up, sub-subs!
glazier.  True enough, thought I, as this passage occurred to my mind --old
glittering teeth resembling ivory saws; others were tufted with knots of
gods!  go down to the fiery pit itself, in order to keep out this frost?  Now,
going a-whaling, and there is plenty of that yet to come.  Let us scrape the
gone a death-harvesting with such a hacking, horrifying implement.  Mixed with
got a carpenter's plane there in the bar --wait, I say, and I'll make ye snug
gradually monopolizing the business of whaling, and though in this matter poor
grinning like an ape.  The shavings flew right and left; till at last the
gulp down your tears and hie aloft to the royal-mast with your  hearts; for
hand from the sailors on the forecastle.  He thinks he breathes it first; but
harpoon from the bowsprit?  Now having a night, a day, and still another night
harpooneer, his linen or woollen, as the case might be, would not be of the
harpooneer, is it?  Oh, no, said he, looking a sort of diabolically funny,
have the satisfaction of knowing that it is all right; that everybody else
he could anyways find in any book whatsoever, sacred or profane.
he refrained from making as much noise as the rest.  This man interested me
he saw in the fountain, plunged into it and was drowned.  But that same
he swore was a sovereign cure for all colds and catarrhs whatsoever, never
heads muffled in woollen comforters, all bedarned and ragged, and their
heads, as it generally does even with the arrantest topers newly landed from
heard in the entry; the door was flung open, and in rolled a wild set of
heathenish array of monstrous clubs and spears.  Some were thickly set with
here come more crowds, pacing straight for the water, and seemingly bound for
himself.  Such a portentous and mysterious monster roused all my curiosity.
his meadow, and there sleep his cattle; and up from yonder cottage goes a
holy?  Why did the Greeks give it a separate deity, and own brother of Jove?
howling night, when this corner-anchored old ark rocked so furiously.  On one
human hair; and one was sickle-shaped, with a vast handle sweeping round like
ibis and roasted river horse, that you see the mummies of those creatures in
ice from our frosted feet, and see what sort of a place this Spouter may
ills, and that on no account can a monied man enter heaven.  Ah!  how
image, we ourselves see in all rivers and oceans.  It is the image of the
in a great hurricane; the half-foundered ship weltering there with its three
in it.  Besides, passengers get sea-sick --grow quarrelsome --don't sleep of
in lath and plaster--tied to counters, nailed to benches, clinched to desks.
in.  And there they stand--miles of them--leagues.  Inlanders all, they come
include reference to Professor Irey's work.
including our own.
inferred that I ever go to sea as a passenger.  For to go as a passenger you
inquiry of the neighbors, that you could any way arrive at an understanding
instance?  Who aint a slave?  Tell me that.  Well, then, however the old
invest his money in a pedestrian trip to Rockaway Beach?  Why is almost every
involuntarily took an oath with yourself to find out what that marvellous
is good, I am quick to perceive a horror, and could still be social with
is on, and the chips were carted off a million years ago.  Poor Lazarus
is one way or other served in much the same way -- either in a physical or
is the one charm wanting? --Water --there is not a drop of water there!  Were
it became a matter of concernment where I was to eat and sleep meanwhile.  It
it seems, for some reason a huge favorite with them, they raised a cry of
it was getting late, and my decent harpooneer ought to be home and going
it--would they let me --since it is but well to be on friendly terms with all
it?  Why did the poor poet of Tennessee, upon suddenly receiving two handfuls
jump from spar to spar, like a grasshopper in a May meadow.  And at first,
just as you please; i'm sorry i cant spare ye a tablecloth for a mattress,
land; loitering under the shady lee of yonder warehouses will not suffice.
landlord cried, That's the Grampus's crew.  I seed her reported in the
landlord) really had no other place for me, and the harpooneer was not
last all these fancies yielded to that one portentous something in the
late to make any improvements now.  The universe is finished; the copestone
leaning over sadly.  It stood on a sharp bleak corner, where that tempestuous
leviathan himself?  In fact, the artist's design seemed this: a final theory
light looked so dim, and the place, for the time, looked
like leaves upon this shepherd's head, yet all were vain, unless the
like to be private when they are sleeping.  And when it comes to sleeping with
limber, portentous, black mass of something hovering in the
little withered old man, who, for their money, dearly sells the sailors
long precisely --having little or no money in my purse, and nothing particular
long time ago.  It came in as a sort of brief interlude and solo between more
looker on.  Presently a rioting noise was heard without.  Starting up, the
love to sail forbidden seas, and land on barbarous coasts.  Not ignoring what
low ponderous beams above, and such old wrinkled planks beneath, that you
made of frozen sighs, and being a president of a temperance society, he only
made up to sail in no other than a Nantucket craft, because there was a fine,
managers, the Fates, put me down for this shabby part of a whaling voyage,
mariners enough.  Enveloped in their shaggy watch coats, and with their
marvels of a thousand Patagonian sights and sounds, helped to sway me to my
meridians rudely pecked into the glass, surround these footpads' goblets.
metaphysical point of view, that is; and so the universal thump is passed
might have been carted here from the ruins of some burnt district, and as the
mind of how long standing, or whether caught off the coast of Labrador, or
mockingly embellished with all the gay flags of all the known nations of the world.
most of them all, one grand hooded phantom, like a snow hill in the air.
most young candidates for the pains and penalties of whaling
mouth --the bar --when the wrinkled little old Jonah, there officiating, soon
mouth; whenever it is a damp, drizzly November in my soul; whenever I find
much and earnest contemplation, and oft repeated ponderings, and especially by
must needs have a purse, and a purse is but a rag unless you have something
myself involuntarily pausing before coffin warehouses, and bringing up the
nameless yeast.  A boggy, soggy, squitchy picture truly, enough to drive a
nervous man distracted.  Yet was there a sort of indefinite, half-attained,
nigh the tail, and, like a restless needle sojourning in the body of a man,
night; how Orion glitters; what northern lights!  Let them talk of their
nightmare to a dead sartainty.  Landlord, I whispered, that aint the
nights --do not enjoy themselves much, as a general thing; --no, I never go as a
not Lazarus rather be in Sumatra than here?  Would he not far rather lay him
not so.  In much the same way do the commonalty lead their leaders in many
nothing surprising in this.  If they but knew it, almost all men in their
now we'll have the latest news from the Feegees.  A tramping of sea boots was
objections to sharing a harpooneer's blanket, have ye?  I s'pose you are goin'
ocean with me.  There now is your insular city of the Manhattoes, belted round
of The Trap.  However, I picked myself up and hearing a loud voice within,
of a sea-captain orders me to get a broom and sweep down the decks?  What does
of its purpose.  such unaccountable masses of shades and shadows, that at
of making my own summer with my own coals.  But what thinks Lazarus?  Can he
of me, and secretly dogs me, and influences me in some unaccountable way --he
of men be plunged in his deepest reveries--stand that man on his legs, set his
of my own, partly based upon the aggregated opinions of many aged persons
of ships from China; some high aloft in the rigging, as if striving to get a
of silver, deliberate whether to buy him a coat, which he sadly needed, or
of that tempestuous wind called Euroclydon, says an old writer --of whose
off his tatters with his shiverings, he might plug up both ears with rags,
officer on ship-board --yet, somehow, I never fancied broiling fowls; --though
offing this morning; a three years' voyage, and a full ship.  Hurrah, boys;
old Nantucket is now much behind her, yet Nantucket was her great original
on so bitter a night, I would put up with the half of any decent man's
on the weather side of an ice-island.  The liquor soon mounted into their
once broiled, judiciously buttered, and judgmatically salted and peppered,
one in-doors, with his feet on the hob quietly toasting for bed.  In judging
one of those tall mountaineers from the Alleganian Ridge in Virginia.  When
only by diligent study and a series of systematic visits to it, and careful
only meat and potatoes, but dumplings; good heavens!  dumplings for supper!
open, and in the wild conceits that swayed me to my purpose, two and two
orchard
oriental summer climes of everlasting conservatories; give me the privilege
other things, at the same time that the leaders little suspect it.  But
our half frozen fingers.  But the fare was of the most substantial kind --not
over like a bench on the Battery.  At one end a ruminating tar was still
overlapping spurs of mountains bathed in their hill-side blue.  But though
own skin.  The more I pondered over this harpooneer, the more I abominated
painting meant.  Ever and anon a bright, but, alas, deceptive idea would dart
particular connexion, thought I. But it is a common name in Nantucket,
particularly if you come of an old established family in the land, the van
passenger; nor, though I am something of a salt, do I ever go to sea as a
paying me for my trouble, whereas they never pay passengers a single penny
people's hats off--then, I account it high time to get to sea as soon as I can.
performing the part I did, besides cajoling me into the delusion that it was
picture's midst.  That once found out, and all the rest were plain.  But stop;
plane-iron came bump against an indestructible knot.  The landlord was near
please, and ten to one it carries you down in a dale, and leaves you there
poison.  Though true cylinders without --within, the villanous green goggling
poured them out brimmers all round.  One complained of a bad cold in his head,
previous to putting your hand into the tar-pot, you have been lording it as a
professor.  Yes, as every one knows, meditation and water are wedded for ever.
pulpit.  It was a negro church; and the preacher's text was about the
pursuit of him.  It was now about nine o'clock, and the room seeming almost
pushed on and opened a second, interior door.  It seemed the great Black
queer sort of place --a gable-ended old house, one side palsied as it were, and
quiet enough, and the dilapidated little wooden house itself looked as if it
quietest, most enchanting bit of romantic landscape in all the valley of the
quite as much as I can do to take care of myself, without taking care of
rather not sleep with your own brother.  I don't know how it is, but people
rear of every funeral I meet; and especially whenever my hypos get such an
regulating the circulation.  Whenever I find myself growing grim about the
representing a tall straight jet of misty spray, and these words underneath
respectable toils, trials, and tribulations of every kind whatsoever.  It is
reveries.  Some leaning against the spiles; some seated upon the pier-heads;
robust healthy boy with a robust healthy soul in him, at some time or other
round --you enter the public room.  A still duskier place is this, with such
round, and all hands should rub each other's shoulder-blades, and be
rows to peer; and beyond, a black Angel of Doom was beating a book in a
sailor, I should now take it into my head to go on a whaling voyage; this
sailor, right before the mast, plumb down into the forecastle, aloft there
saw a swinging sign over the door with a white painting upon it, faintly
says I. Where is that harpooneer?  Is he here?  He'll be here afore long,
sea, and they began capering about most obstreperously.  I observed, however,
sea-captains may order me about--however they may thump and punch me about, I
sea.  In a few minutes, however, he was missed by his shipmates, and being,
seamen.  No man prefers to sleep two in a bed.  In fact, you would a good deal
service the soles of my boots were in a most miserable plight.  Too expensive
shepherd's eye were fixed upon the magic stream before him.  Go visit the
ship were now out of sight of land?  Why did the old Persians hold the sea
shipmate (though but a sleeping-partner one, so far as this narrative is
ships, barques, brigs, schooners, and what not.  And as for going as cook, --
side hung a very large oil-painting so thoroughly besmoked, and every way
side stood a long, low, shelf-like table covered with cracked glass cases,
sign of The Trap!  Moving on, I at last came to a dim sort of light not far
skrimshander.  I sought the landlord, and telling him I desired to be
sleepy smoke.  Deep into distant woodlands winds a mazy way, reaching to
so turned out that we should sleep together, he must undress and get into bed
so, it would depend upon who the harpooneer might be, and that if he (the
some looking over the bulwarks glasses!
something like this: Grand Contested Election for the Presidency of the
sounded my pocket, and only brought up a few pieces of silver, --So,
speak more respectfully, not to say reverentially, of a broiled fowl than I
spoil the hilarity of his shipmates by his own sober face, yet upon the whole
spraining his wrist, and I told him for heaven's sake to quit -- the bed was
stands the vast arched bone of the whale's jaw, so wide, a coach might
still better seaward peep.  But these are all landsmen; of week days pent up
stood invitingly open.  It had a careless look, as if it were meant for the
stop at this same New Bedford, thence to embark on their voyage, it may as
story of Narcissus, who because he could not grasp the tormenting, mild image
street-stalls of the earth, picking up whatever random allusions to whales 
strike unsplinterable
such offices to those who like them.  For my part, I abominate all honorable
sunset.  And that harpoon--so like a corkscrew now--was flung in Javan seas,
supernaturally quiet after these orgies, I began to congratulate myself upon
swinging sign had a poverty-stricken sort of creak to it, I thought that here
tell from what vile hole he had been coming?  Landlord!  I've changed my mind
tempestuous Euroclydon.  Euroclydon!  says old Dives, in his red silken
that I am in the habit of going to sea whenever I begin to grow hazy about the
that I ever heard of.  On the contrary, passengers themselves must pay.  And
that Lazarus should lie stranded there on the curbstone before the door of
that he was a Southerner, and from his fine stature, I thought he must be
that indignity amount to, weighed, I mean, in the scales of the New
that no way of reaching that place would offer, till the following Monday.  As
that one of them held somewhat aloof, and though he seemed desirous not to
the Moluccas.  Yet Dives himself, he too lives like a Czar in an ice palace
the Red-Men, first sally out in canoes to give chase to the Leviathan?  And
the battery, where that noble mole is washed by waves, and cooled by
the compasses of all those ships attract them thither?  Once more.  Say, you
the deep shadows of his eyes floated some reminiscences that did not seem to
the frost is on both sides, and of which the wight Death is the only
the harpooneer is a dark complexioned chap.  He never eats dumplings, he
the inmates of the place one lodges in.  By reason of these things, then, the
the invisible police officer of the Fates, who has the constant surveillance
the most part the Commodore on the quarter-deck gets his atmosphere at second
the outside, or whether thou observest it from that sashless window, where
the picture lies thus tranced, and though this pine-tree shakes down its sighs
the revelry of his companions had mounted to its height, this man slipped
the segment made in the new-mown grass by a long-armed mower.  You shuddered
the sign of The Crossed Harpoons --but it looked too expensive and jolly
the street, and hear the sounds of the tinkling glasses within.  But go on,
the thought of sleeping with him.  It was fair to presume that being a
the week, that quarter of the town proved all but deserted.  But presently I
their huge bake-houses the pyramids.  No, when I go to sea, I go as a simple
there floated into my inmost soul, endless processions of the whale, and, mid
there is all the difference in the world between paying and being paid.  The
there is no one who will
there, chattering his teeth against the curbstone for his pillow, and shaking
there.  Further on, from the bright red windows of the Sword-Fish Inn, there
there.  Ha, Ishmael, muttered I, backing out, Wretched entertainment at the
these were rusty old whaling lances and harpoons all broken and deformed.
they say, and I suppose this Peter here is an emigrant from there.  As the
thick in a hard, asphaltic pavement, --rather weary for me, when I struck my
thieves entailed upon us.  But being paid, --what will compare with it?  The
this sort of thing is unpleasant enough.  It touches one's sense of honor,
though I confess there is considerable glory in that, a cook being a sort of
thought, fancied, and sung of Leviathan, by many nations and generations,
three mast-heads.  The opposite wall of this entry was hung all over with a
throwing open the little window towards the back of the entry, you at last
tidiest, certainly none of the finest.  I began to twitch all over.  Besides,
to interest me on shore, I thought I would sail about a little and see the
to lodge for the night, my dear Ishmael, be sure to inquire the price, and
to the royal mast-head.  True, they rather order me about some, and make me
tossed craft.  Euroclydon, nevertheless, is a mighty pleasant zephyr to any
transition is a keen one, I assure you, from the schoolmaster to a sailor,
travelled full forty feet, and at last was found imbedded in the hump.
try this experiment, if your caravan happen to be supplied with a metaphysical
undeliverable, nameless perils of the whale; these, with all the attending
ungraspable phantom of life; and this is the key to it all.  Now, when I say
unimaginable sublimity about it that fairly froze you to it, till you
upon learning that the little packet for Nantucket had already sailed, and
upon which Jonah mixed him a pitch-like potion of gin and molasses, which
upper hand of me, that it requires a strong moral principle to prevent me
urbane activity with which a man receives money is really marvellous,
uses of the public; so, entering, the first thing I did was to stumble over
voyage, formed part of the grand programme of Providence that was drawn up a
wainscots, reminding one of the bulwarks of some condemned old craft.  On one
wait a bit, Skrimshander; I've
warm his blue hands by holding them up to the grand northern lights?  Would
was a very dubious-looking, nay, a very dark and dismal night, bitingly cold
was stranded.  Where else but from Nantucket did those aboriginal whalemen,
was the answer.  I could not help it, but I began to feel suspicious of this
was the very spot for cheap lodgings, and the best of pea coffee.  It was a
watery part of the world.  It is a way I have of driving off the spleen, and
well be related that I, for one, had no idea of so doing.  For my mind was
whale statements, however authentic, in these extracts, for veritable gospel
whaling voyage was welcome; the great flood-gates of the wonder-world swung
what in old times must have been a great central chimney with fire-places all
when for scores on scores of miles you wade knee-deep among Tiger-lilies--what
when others were set down for magnificent parts in high tragedies, and short
where but from Nantucket, too, did that first adventurous little sloop put
wherefore it was that after having repeatedly smelt the sea as a merchant
wherever you go, Ishmael, said I to myself, as I stood in the middle of a
whether thou lookest out at it from a glass window where the frost is all on
which amazingly pleased me.  Besides though New Bedford has of late been
will.  It is out of the idolatrous dotings of the old Egyptians upon broiled
wind Euroclydon kept up a worse howling than ever it did about poor Paul's
winter scene. --It's the breaking-up of the ice-bound stream of Time.  But at
wish.  With other men, perhaps, such things would not have been inducements;
with the darkness towards the south --wherever in your wisdom you may conclude
with whom I conversed upon the subject.  The picture represents a Cape-Horner
works I possess the only copy extant -- it maketh a marvellous difference,
would almost fancy you trod some old craft's cockpits, especially of such a
wrapper --(he had a redder one afterwards) pooh, pooh!  What a fine frosty
you found yourself in a wide, low, straggling entry with old-fashioned
you through. --It's the Black Sea in a midnight gale. --It's the unnatural
your coming.  Here ye strike but splintered hearts together i{there}, ye shall
your friends who have gone before are clearing out the seven-storied heavens,
your own hammock, and cover yourself with your own blanket, and sleep in your
your patched boots are stopping the way.  So on I went.  I now by instinct
yourself feel such a mystical vibration, when first told that you and your
