
















     I say three years, but I am pretty sure it was more than that.  Here are
     So far as what there may be of a
     So ignorant are most landsmen of some of the plainest and most palpable
     That protection could only consist in his own predominating brain and heart
     Though, consumed with the hot fire of his
     Was it not so, O Don Miguel!  thou Chilian whale, marked like an old
     and accursed fiends beckoned him to leap down among them; when this hell in
     circumstance in point, peculiarly interesting to the writer hereof.
     for granted the ship had struck against a rock; but when the amazement was a
     miasmas, with all the other common perils incident to wandering in the heart
     rocks, with all the other ordinary subjects of fearful contemplation, 
     she would infallibly encounter him there.  So, too, with some other feeding
     stand no nonsense.  I will now refer you to Langsdorff's Voyages for a little
     the circular.  This chart divides the ocean into districts of five degrees
     the ship Essex, Captain Pollard, of
     totally
     you will clearly perceive that, according to all human reasoning,
--he speaks of the mysterious and mortal attack of the animal.
.  By that circular, it appears that precisely
.. < chapter xlv 24  THE AFFIDAVIT >
.. < chapter xlvi 22  SURMISES >
.. <p 196n. >
.. <p 198 >
.. <p 199 >
.. <p 200 >
.. <p 200 >
.. <p 201 >
.. <p 202 >
.. <p 203 >
.. <p 204 >
.. <p 204n. >
.. <p 205 >
.. <p 205n. >
.. <p 206 >
.. <p 207 >
.. <p 208 >
.. <p 209 >
.. <p 209 >
.. <p 210 >
.. <p 211 >
.. <p 212 >
Ahab that had gone to his hammock, was not the agent that so caused
Ahab, the scheming, unappeasedly steadfast hunter of the white whale; this
But as the mind does not exist unless leagued with the soul, therefore it
Commodore Davis of the British navy found the skeleton of a sperm whale.  Now,
Commodore's craft
Commodore's interview with that whale as providential.  Was not Saul of Tarsus
Constantinople?  Yes.  For the peculiar snow-white brow of Moby Dick, and his
D'Wolf applied immediately to the pumps to examine whether or not the vessel
Dorchester near Boston.  I have the honor of being a nephew of his.  I have
Emperor, must in all probability have been a sperm whale.
Fishery,
I take it --the conclusion aimed at will naturally follow of itself.  First: I
Islands.  Conversation turning upon whales, the Commodore was pleased to be
Justinian was Emperor and Belisarius general.  As many know, he wrote the
Krusenstern's famous Discovery Expedition in the beginning of the present
Langsdorff, you must know by the way, was attached to the Russian Admiral
Marmora, after having destroyed vessels at intervals in those waters for a
Mediterranean and the deep waters connecting with it.  Even now I am certain
Mediterranean.  I am told, on good authority, that on the Barbary coast, a
Miguel, after at various times creating great havoc among the boats of
Moby Dick.  For however eagerly and impetuously the savage crew had hailed the
Nantucket, was cruising in the Pacific Ocean.  One day she saw spouts,
Nantucket.  I have seen Owen Chace, who was chief mate of the Essex at the
No: because the mails are very irregular between here and New Guinea.  In
Nor-Westers, Harmattans, Trades; any wind but the Levanter and Simoom, might
Pollard once more sailed for the Pacific in command of another ship, but the
Procopius mentions that, during the term of his prefecture at Constantinople,
Procopius's sea-monster, that for half a century stove the ships of a Roman
Procopius, a Christian magistrate of Constantinople, in the days when
Propontis.  In the Propontis, as far as I can learn, none of that peculiar
Season-on-the-Line.  No possible endeavor then could enable her commander to
Secondly: People ashore have indeed some indefinite idea that a whale is an
Secondly: The ship Union, also of Nantucket, was in the year
Siberian coast, and purchased by my uncle after bartering away the vessel in
Since the above was written, the statement is happily borne out by an official
Sylla to the classic scholar.  But this is not all.  New Zealand Tom and Don
Tattoo Land?  Was it not so, O Morquan!  King of Japan, whose lofty jet
The following are extracts from Chace's narrative: Every fact seemed to
The ship, however, was by no means a large one: a Russian craft built on the
Volcano Bay on the Japanese Coast; yet it did not follow, that were the
Was it not so, O Timor Tom!  thou famed leviathan, scarred like an iceberg,
Washington, April 16th,
White Whale was seen.  During that long interval Starbuck would ever be apt to
White Whale, more especially the catastrophe.  For this is one of those
Woods, Captain Butler of old had it in his mind to capture that notorious
a black night in an open boat, when almost despairing of reaching any
a certain generous knight-errantism in them, still, while for the love of it
a great sea-monster was captured in the neighboring Propontis, or Sea of
a meeting.  There was a circumstance which at first sight seemed to entangle
a running sperm whale have, in a calm, been transferred to the ship, and
a weariness and faintness of pondering came over him; and in the open air of
adventure, so full, too, of honest wonders --the voyage of Lionel Wafer, one
affair.  I care not to perform this part of my task methodically; but shall
affecting the matter presently to be mentioned.  Now, in this history of his,
all his hopes upon the one crowning fact above mentioned, however flattering
altogether to abandon the collateral prosecution of the voyage.  Or at least
an unseen whale vertically bumping the hull from beneath.  I might proceed
analytic to be verbally developed here, Ahab plainly saw that he must still
and deaths by casualties in the fishery, ever finds a public record at home,
and distinctions of a name; had as much a name indeed as Cambyses or Caesar.
and hand, backed by a heedful, closely calculating
and last, and the last time distinctly recognized a peculiar sort of huge
and passion in the end, it is above all things requisite that temporary
and shall he escape?  His broad fins are bored, and scalloped out like a lost
and such as indicated resentment and fury.  He came directly from the shoal
and the horrid aspect and revenge of the whale, wholly engrossed my
and time himself on his way, as even then not to be wholly without prospect of
announcement of his quest; yet all sailors of all sorts are more or less
appear in the newspaper obituary you will read to-morrow at your breakfast?
as a vessel of war readily passes through the Dardanelles, hence a sperm
at distant times and places popularly cognisable.  Why such a whale became
attention to every minute atmospheric influence which it was possible for his
authorities, he has always been considered a most trustworthy and
be content to produce the desired impression by separate citations of items,
be content with only one more and a concluding illustration; a remarkable and
be identically the same with those that were found there the preceding
be stripped of that strange imaginative impiousness which naturally invested
be the hated one he hunted.  But if such an hypothesis be indeed
been isolated instances of the presence of the sperm whale in the
between them, both of which, according to their direction,  were
blood was spilled for it.
blow Moby Dick into
brisk gale from the northwest sprang up.  An uncommon large whale, the body
brooding soul into this unfaltering hunt, he would not permit himself to rest
but so intolerably cold that we were obliged to keep on our fur clothing.  For
but to pursue the ship itself, and long withstand all the lances hurled at
by Ahab, with a view to this very complexion of things.  Because, an interval
by no means the largest of that sort, have been found at its surface.  If,
calculated to do us the most injury, by being made ahead, and thereby
calculating mischief, on the part of the whale (many of which impressions I
cannot easily be gainsaid.  Nor is there any reason it should be.  Of what
cannot now recall), induce me to be satisfied that I am correct in my
capricious and unreliable --they live in the varying outer weather, and they
captain's quest, and could he, would joyfully disintegrate himself from it,
capture of Moby Dick; though he seemed ready to sacrifice all mortal
case, these spiritual throes in him heaved his being up from its base, and a
cashier Ahab.  Nor was there wanting still another precautionary motive more
catastrophe.
cautious comprehensiveness and unloitering vigilance with which Ahab threw his
century.  Captain Langsdorff thus begins his seventeenth chapter.  By the
character, that upon being attacked he will frequently open his mouth, and
chasm seemed opening in him, from which forked flames and lightnings shot up,
circular, issued by Lieutenant Maury, of the National Observatory,
combining the speed of the two objects for the shock; to effect which, the
commanding the ship in question, is a New Englander, who, after a long life
commodore set sail in this impregnable craft for Valparaiso.  But he was
common vitality to which it was conjoined, fled horror-stricken from the
companions, as if fired with revenge for their sufferings.  Again: At all
competent, could refuse all further obedience to him, and even violently
complete spiritual man any more than mere corporeal superiority involves
confidential business with him.  that business consisted in fetching the
consecutive years, Moby Dick had been periodically descried, lingering in
considering his monomania, to hint that his vindictiveness towards
constitution of
content to recognise him by merely touching their tarpaulins when he would be
contrary of this has proved true.  In general, the same remark, only within a
conversed with his son; and all this within a few miles of the scene of the
converted from unbelief by a similar fright?  I tell you, the sperm whale will
corroborative example, if such be needed.  Lionel, it seems, was on his way
crew reached the land in their boats.  Being returned home at last, Captain
crew to be subjected to.  For all these reasons then, and others perhaps too
cuttle-fish --lurks at the bottom of that sea, because large creatures, but
daily appetites.  For even the high lifted and chivalric Crusaders of old
darkness of that early hour of the morning, the shock was after all caused by
days that have been spent in each month in every district, and the two
desire.  He sleeps with clenched hands; and wakes with his own bloody nails
different
discovered lounging by them on the sea, without seeking to cultivate a more
disheartening instances where truth requires full as much bolstering as error.
do not know where I can find a better place than just here, to make mention of
done it.  First: In the year
eighteen or twenty years ago Commodore J--- then commanding an American
enormous creature of enormous power; but I have ever found that when
escaped entirely uninjured.  now, the captain d'wolf here alluded to as
escaping from the boats, issued from the shoal, and bore directly down upon
establishing in all respects the reasonableness of the whole story of the
evanescent.  The permanent constitutional condition of the manufactured man,
events, the whole circumstances taken together, all happening before my own
exact manoeuvres which he made were necessary.  His aspect was most horrible,
example, on what is called the Seychelle ground in the Indian ocean, or
exceptionable, there were still additional considerations which, though not
express object as much in view, as in setting out through the Narragansett
eyes, and producing, at the time, impressions in my mind of decided,
fact, did you ever hear what might be called regular news direct or indirect
fall into open relapses of rebellion against his captain's leadership, unless
fears of being swallowed up by some dreadful tempest, or dashed upon hidden
feeding-grounds, could Ahab hope to encounter his prey; but in crossing the
feeds upon that heart for ever; that vulture the very creature he creates.
fishery there hung a terrible prestige of perilousness about such a whale as
fixed, vivid conception of those perils, and the frequency with which they
flinging of the two harpoons; and I think it may have been something more
for any object remote and blank in the pursuit, however promissory of life
for death.  And, indeed, the shock was so sudden and violent, that we took it
for the final dash.  Nor was Ahab unmindful of another thing.  In times of
foregoing chapter, in its earliest part, is as important a one as will be
found in this volume; but the leading matter of it requires to be still
four whales as well known to the students of Cetacean History as Marius or
from New Guinea?  Yet I tell you that upon one particular voyage which I made
from a bed that was on fire.  Yet these, perhaps, instead of being the
from the body.  In the instance where three years intervened between the
further and more familiarly enlarged upon, in order to be adequately
gaining ground, Ahab must of course have been most anxious to protect himself.
gaining other pious perquisites by the way.  Had they been strictly held to
gentlemen present.  He peremptorily denied for example, that any whale could
get out of order.  He knew, for example, that however magnetic his ascendency
go by, and no perspective promise of it to them, and then this same
gods shipwrecked him again upon unknown rocks and breakers; for the second
good ground to impeach.  secondly: It is well known in the Sperm Whale
granting all this; yet, regarded discreetly and coolly, seems it not but a
great mischief along the spanish land.  but i should not much wonder if, in the
grounds, where he had at times revealed himself.  But all these seemed only
had received any damage from the shock, but we found that very happily it had
hardly tell where they were or what to think; but every one began to prepare
harpoon, has effected a complete escape; and, after an interval (in one
has been known, not only to chase the assailing boats back to their ships,
have every reason to believe that the food of the sperm whale --squid or
have personally known three instances where a whale, after receiving a
have significantly complimented me upon my facetiousness; when, I declare
head on a gun, was thrown out of his cabin!  Lionel then goes on to impute
head; and, as for his strength, let me say, that there have been examples
hearts of this my savage crew, and playing round their savageness even breeds
hence not only at substantiated times, upon well known separate
him from its decks.  The English ship Pusie Hall can tell a story on that
him to burst from it in horror again.  The latter was the eternal, living
him.  Not only that, but the subtle insanity of Ahab respecting Moby Dick was
himself yawned beneath him, a wild cry would be heard through the ship; and
his casual stopping-places and ocean-inns, so to speak, not his places of
his delirious but still methodical scheme.  But not so in the reality,
his life-spot became insufferable anguish; and when, as was sometimes the
his object have hitherto been spoken of, allusion has only been made to
his pursuers; nor is it without conveying some eloquent indication of his
historical and otherwise, of the fishery, they might scout at Moby Dick as a
history of his own times, a work every way of uncommon value.  By the best
horse walks off with a cart.  Again, it is very often observed that, if the
hospitable shore.  The dark ocean and swelling waters were nothing; the
however ignorant the world ashore may be of it, that there have been several
however transient and immediately forgotten that record.  Do you suppose that
hunted such and such a latitude or longitude this year, say, will turn out to
hunter, even as a white-bearded Mufti in the thronged thoroughfares of
hunters I have now and then heard casual allusions to it.  Thirdly: Some
if encountered, should be thought capable of individual recognition from his
if this were otherwise, there were not wanting other motives much more
ignorance of the entire subject may
impossible to prevent its striking against him.  We were thus placed in the
impunity, both moral and legal, his crew if so disposed, and to that end
in a good degree continue true to the natural, nominal purpose of the Pequod's
in any other waters haunted by his race.  So that Monsoons, Pampas,
in his palms.  often, when forced from his hammock by exhausting and
in itself.  God help thee, old man, thy thoughts have created a creature in
in less than ten minutes she settled down and fell over.  Not a surviving
in some respects was over Starbuck, yet that ascendency did not cover the
independent being of its own.  Nay, could grimly live and burn, while the
induce in some minds, as to the natural verity of the main points of this
influential with him.  It would be refining too much, perhaps, even
inhale its fickleness --and when retained
instance of three years), has been again struck by the same hand, and slain;
intellectual mastership; for to the purely spiritual, the intellectual but
interesting and curious particulars in the habits of sperm whales, the
interests and employment should intervene and hold them healthily suspended
interests to that one passion; nevertheless it may have been that he was by
intimate acquaintance.  Like some poor devils ashore that happen to know an
intolerable allegory.  First: Though most men have some vague flitting ideas
intolerably vivid dreams of the night, which, resuming his own intense
investigations have recently proved to me, that in modern times there have
irascible great man, they make distant unobtrusive salutations to him in the
is presumed to expand or contract); but never exceeds the visual sweep from
it might be to those hopes; nor in the sleeplessness of his vow could he so
it; that the full terror of the voyage must be kept withdrawn into the
its flanks all the coasts of Africa; but to no purpose.  This man and this
its travels; no doubt it had thrice circumnavigated the globe, brushing with
just quoted from Langsdorff, that I cannot forbear inserting it here for a
killed by valiant whaling captains, who heaved up their anchors with that
knowing, and judiciously malicious, as with direct aforethought to stave in,
laid himself open to the unanswerable charge of usurpation; and with perfect
lamps and candles!  not a gallon you burn, but at least one drop of man's
less wide limit, applies to the solitaries and hermits among the matured, aged
light, to be sure, but without an object to color, and therefore a blankness
little over, we cast the lead, and sounded, but found no ground.  The
long after midnight he would throw himself back in reveries --tallied him,
long time I fancied that the sperm whale had been always unknown in the
lost off the Azores by a similar onset, but the authentic particulars of
lowered her boats, and gave chase to a shoal of sperm whales.  Ere long,
mad idea, this; that in the broad boundless ocean, one solitary whale, even
make the great passage southwards, double Cape Horn, and then running down
meditation unrelieved by action); that when they stood their long night
memorable historical instances where a particular whale in the ocean has been
miscellaneous hunt; if by chance the White Whale, spending his vacation in
mole under the whale's eye, which I had observed there three years previous.
monomaniac old man had found the awful motive to his vengeance.  But in the
monstrous fable, or still worse and more detestable, a hideous and
most imminent danger, as this gigantic creature, setting up its back,
most of the deadly encounters with the white whale had taken place; there the
most significant one, by which you will not fail to see, that not only is
multiplied the chances that each subsequently encountered whale would prove to
murderous savage Annawon, the headmost warrior of the Indian King Philip.  I
must have been that, in Ahab's case, yielding up all his thoughts and fancies
myself, have known three instances similar to this; that is in two of them I
narrating to them some specific example of this two-fold enormousness, they
narrative in this book; and, indeed, as indirectly touching one or two very
nature and long habituation far too wedded to a fiery whaleman's ways,
never tempted it since.  At this day Captain Pollard is a resident of
no means incapable of swaying him.  To accomplish his object Ahab must use
noways more significantly manifested than in his superlative sense and
obscure background (for few men's courage is proof against protracted
of all hopes of cash --aye, cash.  They may scorn cash now; but let some months
of ancient Dampier's old chums --I found a little matter set down so like that
of latitude by five degrees of longitude; perpendicularly through each of
of many other instances from persons whose veracity in the matter there is no
of nearly two years, often endangered by serpents, savages, tigers, poisonous
of the ages; so that for the millionth time we say amen with Solomon --Verily
of the frantic thing, of which, for the time, it was no longer an integral.
of the general perils of the grand fishery, yet they have nothing like a
of three hundred and sixty-five days and nights was before him; an interval
of unknown regions.  Meanwhile, the whale he had struck must also have been on
of unusual adventures as a sea-captain, this day resides in the village of
of which had had a death by a whale, some of them more than one, and three
of which was larger than the ship itself, lay almost at the surface of the
oft seen from the palmy beach of Ombay?  Was it not so, O New Zealand Jack!
often with blind rage, as with wilful, deliberate designs of destruction to
oil.  No: the reason was this: that from the fatal experiences of the
one hundred and fifty leagues from the Main of America, our ship felt a
one or two other things, which to me seem important, as in printed form
operations; he made two several attacks upon the ship, at a short interval
opinion.  Here are his reflections some time after quitting the ship, during
or even frustrate it.  it might be that a long interval would elapse ere the
others to show the number of days in which whales, sperm or right, have been
out of bodily eyes, when what seemed Ahab rushed from his room, was for the
particular grounds, yet in general you cannot conclude that the herds which
particularly questioned him concerning this passage in Langsdorff.  He
party, and penetrated far into the interior, where he travelled for a period
peculiarities as distinguished from other whales; for however peculiar in
peculiarities by killing him, and boiling him down into a peculiarly valuable
pequod to visit either of those spots at any subsequent corresponding season,
perhaps.  Though the gregarious sperm whales have their regular seasons for
period of more than fifty years.  A fact thus set down in substantial history
plank of her has been seen since.  After the severest exposure, part of the
point is this: The Sperm Whale is in some cases sufficiently powerful,
port to heave down and repair.  I am not superstitious, but I consider the
power and malice at times of the sperm whale.  In more than one instance, he
practically or reliably known to me as a whaleman; and from these citations,
precise species this sea-monster was, is not mentioned.  But as he destroyed
predicted interval in any one sign of the Zodiac.  There it was, too, that
premature hour of the Pequod's sailing had, perhaps, been correctly selected
present day, but that these marvels (like all marvels) are mere repetitions
principle or soul in him; and in sleep, being for the time dissociated from
probabilities, and, as Ahab fondly thought, every possibility the next thing
prolonged abode.  And where Ahab's chances of accomplishing
purpose, Ahab in all his thoughts and actions ever had in view the ultimate
quiescent cash all at once mutinying in them, this same cash would soon
raised the ship three feet at least out of the water.  The masts reeled, and
recur.  One reason perhaps is, that not one in fifty of the actual disasters
reflections, until day again made its appearance.  In another place --p. 45,
related to Ahab personally.  Having impulsively, it is probable, and perhaps
renown; not only was he famous in life and now is immortal in forecastle
retain it in that dread expansion for several consecutive minutes.  But I must
saw the monster sailing off with the utmost gravity and solemnity.  Captain
saw the whales struck; and, upon the second attack, saw the two irons with
sceptical touching the amazing strength ascribed to them by the professional
seas far remote from his periodical feeding-grounds, should turn up his
season; though there are peculiar and unquestionable instances where the
secured there; the whale towing her great hull through the water, as a
seek can be established upon testimony entirely independent of my own.  That
seemed scarcely entitled to a moment's thought; the dismal looking wreck,
seen.
several of the whales were wounded; when, suddenly, a very large whale
sheep's ear!  And here, his mad mind would run on in a breathless race; till
ship, which was in full sail, was almost upon him, so that it was
ships, as well as for other reasons, he must have been a whale; and I am
shrewdness in foreseeing that, for the present, the hunt should in some way
sixty degrees of latitude arrive in the equatorial Pacific in time to cruise
sloop-of-war of the first class, happened to be dining with a party of
snow-white hump, could not but be unmistakable.  And have I not tallied the
so smite his stout sloop-of-war as to cause her to leak so much as a
so strictly according with the wildness of his ruling passion, yet were by
some days we had very little wind; it was not till the nineteenth that a
some ordinary, prudential, circumstantial influences were brought to bear upon
somewhat prematurely revealed the prime but private purpose of the Pequod's
sperm whale, once struck, is allowed time to rally, he then acts, not so
sperm whales, and that the more monsters he slew by so much the more he
sperm whales.  So that though Moby Dick had in a former year been seen, for
stand in a sort of corporeal relation.  Starbuck's body and Starbuck's coerced
stating that a great earthquake, somewhere about that time, did actually do
still he knew that for all this the chief mate, in his soul, abhorred his
stopped on the way by a portly sperm whale, that begged a few moments'
stories after death, but he was admitted into all the rights, privileges,
street, lest if they pursued the acquaintance further, they might receive a
strong emotion mankind disdain all base considerations; but such times are
strongly inclined to think a sperm whale.  And I will tell you why.  For a
substance called brit is to be found, the aliment of the right whale.  But I
substantiates every word.
such a chart is in course of completion; and portions of it are presented in
such a thwack, that with all his pumps going he made straight for the nearest
suddenness of the shock made the guns leap in their carriages, and several of
summary thump for their presumption.  But not only did each of these famous
technical phrase --the Season-on-the-Line.  For there and then, for several
terrible shock, which put our men in such consternation that they could
than that; the man who darted them happening, in the interval, to go in a
that had each lost a boat's crew.  For God's sake, be economical with your
that path, migrating whales may with great confidence be looked for.  And
that poor fellow there, who this moment perhaps caught by the whale-line off
that respect any chance whale may be, they soon put an end to his
that those seas are not, and perhaps never can be, in the present
the Pequod had sailed from Nantucket at the very beginning of the
the White Whale might have possibly extended itself in some degree to all
the characterizing mind, which at other times employed it for its outer
the coast of New Guinea, is being carried down to the bottom of the sea by
the deck he would seek to recover his strength.  Ah, God!  what trances of
the deck, concluding that we had struck upon some rock; instead of this we
the devious zig-zag world-circle of the Pequod's circumnavigating wake.  But
the history of the plagues of Egypt.  But fortunately the special point I here
the men were shaken out of their hammocks.  Captain Davis, who lay with his
the most marvellous event in this book corroborated by plain facts of the
the open sea, on our way to Ochotsh.  The weather was very clear and fine,
the respective marks cut in them, afterwards taken from the dead fish.  In the
the sails fell altogether, while we who were below all sprang instantly upon
the ship.  dashing his forehead against her hull, he so stove her in, that
the shock to an earthquake, and seems to substantiate the imputation by
the sounding leviathan --do you suppose that that poor fellow's name will
the whale-ship's mast-heads, when circumspectly gliding along this magic
thee; and he whose intense thinking thus makes him a Prometheus; a vulture
their holy sepulchre, without committing burglaries, picking pockets, and
their one final and romantic object --that final and romantic object, too many
then, you properly put these statements together, and reason upon them a bit,
there did about Rinaldo Rinaldini, insomuch that most fishermen were
there is nothing new under the sun.  In the sixth Christian century lived
there.  Therefore, he must wait for the next ensuing season.  Yet the
they give chase to Moby Dick, they must also have food for their more common,
they say at times assumed the semblance of a snow-white cross against the sky?
thimbleful.  Very good; but there is more coming.  Some weeks after, the
things, a place for his habitual gregarious resort.  But further
thirteenth of May our ship was ready to sail, and the next day we were out in
this catastrophe I have never chanced to encounter, though from the whale
thither, he says, about four o'clock in the morning, when we were about
those waters for awhile, as the sun, in its annual round, loiters for a
thou terror of all cruisers that crossed their wakes in the vicinity of the
thought Ahab, is sordidness.  Granting that the White Whale fully incites the
thoughts through the day, carried them on amid a clashing of phrensies, and
three instances, then, which I personally know the truth of; but I have heard
three-year instance, it so fell out that I was in the boat both times, first
through each of which districts are three lines; one to show the number of
thus marked was not altogether and originally owing to his bodily
time but a vacated thing, a formless somnambulistic being, a ray of living
time his ship was utterly lost, and forthwith forswearing the sea, he has
time of the tragedy; I have read his plain and faithful narrative; I have
time or place were attained, when all possibilities would become
times were not content to traverse two thousand miles of land to fight for
to John Ferdinando, as he calls the modern Juan Fernandes.  In our way
to a certainty.  That particular set time and place were conjoined in the one
to his one supreme purpose; that purpose, by its own sheer inveteracy of
to the Pacific, among many others we spoke thirty different ships, every one
tools; and of all tools used in the shadow of the moon, men are most apt to
torments does that man endure who is consumed with one unachieved revengeful
tortoise with mystic hieroglyphics upon the back!  In plain prose, here are
trading ship on a voyage to Africa, went ashore there, joined a discovery
tranquillize his unquiet heart as to postpone all intervening quest.  Now,
unbidden and unfathered birth.  Therefore, the tormented spirit that glared
understood, and moreover to take away any incredulity which a profound
unexaggerating historian, except in some one or two particulars, not at all
unsuppressable symptoms of some latent weakness, or fright at his own resolve,
upon my soul, I had no more idea of being facetious than Moses, when he wrote
usurpation, and the possible consequences of such a suppressed impression
utterly destroy, and sink a large ship; and what is more, the Sperm Whale has
vehicle or agent, it spontaneously sought escape from the scorching contiguity
vessels, were finally gone in quest of, systematically hunted out, chased and
voyage, Ahab was now entirely conscious that, in so doing, he had indirectly
warrant me in concluding that it was anything but chance which directed his
watches, his officers and men must have some nearer things to think of than
water, but was not perceived by any one on board till the moment when the
waves were storied with his deeds; there also was that tragic spot where the
were but the plainest tokens of its intensity.  For, at such times, crazy
whale again came together, and the one vanquished the other.  I say I,
whale could, by the same route, pass out of the Mediterranean into the
whale, Ahab would mutter to himself, as after poring over his charts till
whales enjoy great individual celebrity --nay, you may call it an ocean-wide
whaling captains, on board a Nantucket ship in the harbor of Oahu, Sandwich
whatever way-side, antecedent, extra prospects were his, ere a particular set
when the two irons, both marked by the same private cypher, have been taken
where the lines attached to
which districts are twelve columns for the twelve months; and horizontally
which he sailed from home.  In that up and down manly book of old-fashioned
which we had just before entered, and in which we had struck three of his
which, instead of impatiently enduring ashore, he would spend in a
whirled them round and round in his blazing brain, till the very throbbing of
who so long did'st lurk in the Oriental straits of that name, whose spout was
widest expanses of water between those grounds he could, by his art, so place
will were Ahab's, so long as Ahab kept his magnet at Starbuck's brain;
will, forced itself against gods and devils into a kind of self-assumed,
with glaring eyes Ahab would burst from his state room, as though escaping
with several more examples, one way or another known to me, of the great
wonders of the world, that without some hints touching the plain facts,
would have turned from in disgust.  I will not strip these men, thought Ahab,
wrest from him the command.  From even the barely hinted imputation of
wrinkled brow off the Persian Gulf, or in the Bengal Bay, or China Seas, or
zone.  The sum is, that at particular seasons within that breadth and along
