




















     A goney, he replied.  Goney!  I never had heard that name before;  is it
     But I doubt not, that leathern tally, meant for man, was taken off in
     Had you followed Captain Ahab down into his
     Say what ye will, shipmate; I've sharp ears.  Aye, you are the chap, ain't
     This elusive quality it is, which causes the thought of whiteness, when
     What is it that in the Albino man so peculiarly repels and often shocks the
     What the white whale was to
     all around at the horizon, the White Steed gallopingly reviewed them with
     and in the Greek mythologies, Great Jove himself made incarnate in a
     another, the sperm whales, guided by some infallible instinct -- say, rather,
     cannot recall to him anything associated with the experience of former
     is, the intensifying agent in things the most appalling to mankind.  Is it
     last the Captain made a postman of it; tying a lettered, leathern tally
     main hatches, I saw a regal, feathery thing of unspotted whiteness, and
     prolonged gale, in waters hard upon the Antarctic seas.  From my forenoon
     tell; with a treacherous hook and line, as the fowl floated on the sea.  At
     then.  But at last I awoke; and turning, asked a sailor what bird was this.
     there yet lurks an elusive something in the innermost idea of this hue, which
     veins, as they are called; continuing their way along a given ocean-line
     we borrow the expressive hue of the shroud in which we wrap them.  Nor even
    !  Hist!  Did you hear that noise, Cabaco?
(eternal rest),  whence Requiem denominating the mass itself, and any
--as if from encircling headlands shoals of combed white bears were swimming
--however grand and wonderful, now quit it; --and take your way, ye nobler,
--why, as we have seen, it is at once the most meaning symbol of spiritual
.. < chapter xlii 6  THE WHITENESS OF THE WHALE >
.. < chapter xliii 10  HARK >
.. < chapter xliv 12  THE CHART >
.. <p 182 >
.. <p 183 >
.. <p 184 >
.. <p 185 >
.. <p 185 >
.. <p 186 >
.. <p 187 >
.. <p 187n. >
.. <p 188 >
.. <p 188n. >
.. <p 189 >
.. <p 190 >
.. <p 191 >
.. <p 192 >
.. <p 193 >
.. <p 194 >
.. <p 194 >
.. <p 195 >
.. <p 195 >
.. <p 196 >
.. <p 197 >
Ahab, has been hinted; what, at times, he was to me, as yet remains unsaid.
Ahab, to that one end, did now possess a thousand fold more potency than ever
Albino is as well made as other men --has no substantive deformity --and yet
And when we consider that other theory of the natural philosophers, that all
Aside from those more obvious considerations touching Moby Dick, which could
Bloody?  And those sublimer towers, the White Mountains of New Hampshire,
Cholo, the words above.  Hist!  did you hear that noise, Cabaco?  Take the
Empire, Caesarian, heir to overlording Rome, having for the imperial color
Europe, does the tall pale man of the Hartz forests, whose changeless
For one, I gave myself up to the abandonment of the time and the place; but
From hand to hand, the buckets went in the deepest silence, only broken by
Hark ye, Cabaco, there is somebody down in the after-hold that has not yet
Heaven, when the white fowl flew to join the wing-folding, the invoking, and
It is not probable that this monomania in him took its instant rise at the
It was the middle-watch; a fair moonlight; the seamen were standing in a
Most famous in our Western annals and Indian traditions is that of the White
Mountains and the Alleghanies.  At their flaming head he westward trooped it
On this hint, attempts have been made to construct elaborate migratory charts
Ophites of the east reverenced in their statue devil; -- Ahab did not fall down
Pizarro, this whiteness keeps her ruins for ever new; admits not the
Polar bear frightens us with so unnatural a contrast.  But even assuming all
Protestant of the Middle American States, why does the passing mention of a
State-secret come.  Now, in his heart, Ahab had some glimpse of this, namely:
Steed of the Prairies; a magnificent milk-white charger, large-eyed,
That it was only then, on the homeward voyage, after the encounter, that the
White Friar or a White Nun, evoke such an eyeless statue in the soul?  Or what
White Whale was to them, or how to their unconscious understandings, also, in
With reference to the Polar bear, it may possibly be urged by him who would
a certain royal pre-eminence in this hue; even the barbaric, grand old kings
a joyful day; and though in other mortal sympathies and symbolizings, this
a silent, superstitious dread; the shrouded phantom of the whitened waters is
abhorred white whale, he pitted himself, all mutilated, against it.  All that
aboundingly responded to the old man's ire --by what evil magic their souls
accessory and strange glory which invests it in the White Steed and Albatross.
accomplishment of that monomaniac thought of his soul.  Now, to any one not
accumulated associations, with whatever is sweet, and honorable, and sublime,
actually inherent in substances, but only laid on from without; so that all
additional courses over spaces that before were blank.  At intervals, he would
addressed to the fancy, why, in reading the old fairy tales of Central
adoring cherubim!
advancing keel.  It was in the midst of this repose, that Archy, one of the
agencies, fail to enlist among her forces this crowning attribute of the
ahab and anguish lay stretched together in one hammock, rounding in mid
albatross.  So that by no possibility could Coleridge's wild Rhyme have had
all my means are sane, my motive and my object mad.  Yet without power to
altogether, the remembrance of her cathedral-toppling earthquakes; nor the
and contributes to the daily state of kings and queens drawn by milk-white
and currents; and thereby calculating the driftings of the sperm whale's
and gashed soul bled into one another; and so interfusing, made him mad.
and her suburban avenues of house-walls lying over upon each other, as a
and marshals in the van of countless cohorts that endlessly streamed it over
and places in which, on various former voyages of various ships, sperm whales
and recklessness in Stubb, and the pervading mediocrity in Flask.  Such a
and shadings which there met his eye; and with slow but steady pencil trace
and the Holy One that sitteth there white like wool; yet for all these
and worship it like them; but deliriously transferring its idea to the
animosity; and when he received the stroke that tore him, he probably but
appalled me.  But how can I hope to explain myself here; and yet, in some
appalling of all brutes.  Or, if for any reason thought to be corporeally
appeals with such power to the soul; and more strange and far more portentous
approaching to certainties, concerning the timeliest day to be upon this or
archangel wings, as if to embrace some holy ark.  Wondrous flutterings and
arises from the circumstance, that the irresponsible ferociousness of the
around him.  And of all these things the Albino whale was the symbol.  Wonder
as if indeed that pallor were as much like the badge of consternation in the
as much their insufferable foe as his; how all this came to be --what the
aspects, does Nature in her least palpable but not the less malicious
assert, then, that in the wondrous bodily whiteness of the bird chiefly
aught to do with those mystical impressions which were mine, when I saw
awfulness to another mind almost solely consists in this one phenomenon,
backwoodsman of the West, who with comparative indifference views an
bailiff in the market-place!  Nor, in some things, does the common, hereditary
be to lose oneself in such inhuman solitudes.  Much the same is it with the
bear of the poles, and the white shark of the tropics; what but their smooth,
bearing the one figure of a snow-white charger; and the great Austrian
beauty, as if imparting some special virtue of its own, as in marbles,
been seen on deck; and I suspect our old Mogul knows something of it too.  I
before the angels, I bowed myself; the white thing was so white, its wings
before us a leper; and like wilful travellers in Lapland, who refuse to wear
behind him, so that he cannot even see it, but only smells its wild animal
behind; so in that broad madness, not one jot of his great natural intellect
bloody hunt of whales.  Gnawed within and scorched without, with the infixed,
bluff-bowed and fearless as this mighty steed.  Whether marching amid his aides
break the fixed trance of whiteness.  Not so the sailor, beholding the
brides, the benignity of age; though among the Red Men of America the giving
brought out; almost every night some pencil marks were effaced, and others
brow the piled entablatures of ages.  Wind ye down there, ye prouder, sadder
brute; for, analysed, that heightened hideousness, it might be said, only
bucket, will ye, Archy?  what noise d'ye mean?  There it is again --under the
burnish a little brighter the noble merit of the poem and the poet.  I
but the deadliest ill.
butterfly cheeks of young girls; all these are but subtile deceits, not
cabin after the squall that took place on the night succeeding that wild
call him Requin.  I remember the first albatross I ever saw.  It was during a
can go.  The subterranean miner that works in us all, how can one tell
cannibals --morally enfeebled also, by the incompetence of mere unaided virtue
cannon upon its own mad mark; so that far from having lost his strength,
captive king; so like a Caryatid, he patient sits, upholding on his frozen
cassock; and though among the holy pomps of the Romish faith, white is
certain it is, that with the mad secret of his unabated rage bolted up and
chance clue to conduct us to the hidden cause we seek?  Let us try.  But in a
chapter about whiteness is but a white flag hung out from a craven soul; thou
character of the day, does the bare mention of Whitsuntide marshal in the
chart, with one tithe of such marvellous precision.  Though, in these cases,
cheer and howl on his underlings to the attack.  But be all this as it may,
cheerful greenness of complete decay; spreads over her broken ramparts the
climes, whiteness typifies the majesty of Justice in the ermine of the Judge,
clothed him with divineness; and that this divineness had that in it which,
clouds of spiritual wonderment and pale dread, in which that white phantom
collated, then the migrations of the sperm whale would be found to correspond
collected front, however pale, and issued his calm orders once again; and
collision forced to turn towards home, and for long months of days and weeks,
color, and at the same time the concrete of all colors; is it for these
colored and coloring glasses upon their eyes, so the wretched infidel gazes
comprehensible form.  It was the whiteness of the whale that above all things
conceivable that this glorious thing is utterly unknown to men ashore! 
consider that the mystical cosmetic which produces every one of her hues, the
continual sight of the snow-howdahed Andes conveys naught of dread, except,
cope-stones, and crosses all adroop (like canted yards of anchored fleets);
cordon, extending from one of the fresh-water butts in the waist, to the
cordon, whose post was near the after-hatches, whispered to his neighbor, a
creature stands invested in the fleece of celestial innocence and love; and
creatures in his green northern home, so that the strange muskiness he smells
crew, so officered, seemed specially picked and packed by some infernal
damned!  Pass along that return bucket.  There again --there it is! --it sounds
death in this shark, and the mild deadliness of his habits, the French
deepeningly contracted; like the unabated Hudson, when that noble Northman
deified Nature absolutely paints like the harlot, whose allurements cover
delirium at sea was likewise popularly ascribed to a kindred cause.  And so
den into the blessed light and air; even then, when he bore that firm,
determinate.  Nevertheless, so well did he succeed in that dissembling, that
dim, random way, explain myself I must, else all these chapters might be
directly from the Latin word for white, all Christian priests derive the name
dissembling was only subject to his perceptibility, not to his will
distant oregon?  no: but here thou beholdest even in a dumb brute, the
divorced from more kindly associations, and coupled with any object terrible
does not feel the
downcast and hooded with new-fallen snow?  Or, to the unread, unsophisticated
either wholly or in great part stripped of all direct associations calculated
elucidated by the following examples.  First: The mariner, when drawing nigh
especially when exhibited under any form at all approaching to muteness or
essence sits in bearded state; an antique buried beneath antiquities, and
evangelist, rides on his pallid horse.  Therefore, in his other moods,
even made significant of gladness, for among the Romans a white stone marked
experience of all mankind fail to bear witness to the supernaturalism of this
eye, as that sometimes he is loathed by his own kith and kin!  It is that
eyes, methought I peeped to secrets which took hold of God.  As Abraham
faculties; but under precisely similar circumstances, let him be called from
fain go still deeper into this matter, that it is not the whiteness,
fancy such long, dreary, speechless processions of slow-pacing pilgrims,
fantastic towers of man's upper earth, his root of grandeur, his whole awful
fast, even there, as he sailed, raving in his hammock.  In a strait-jacket,
fatality to help him to his monomaniac revenge.  How it was that they so
feline thing.  When you think it fled, it may have but become transfigured
felt the agonizing bodily laceration, but nothing more.  Yet, when by this
fill the scuttle-butt.  Standing, for the most part, on the hallowed precincts
final monomania seized him, seems all but certain from the fact that, at
fire worshippers, the white forked flame being held the holiest on the altar;
flaky whiteness makes them the transcendent horrors they are?  That ghastly
flashing cascade of his mane, the curving comet of his tail, invested him
flows narrowly, but unfathomably through the Highland gorge.  But, as in his
food; and, also, calling to mind the regular, ascertained seasons for hunting
four-and-twenty elders stand clothed in white before the great white throne,
fowl.  But how had the mystic thing been caught?  Whisper it not, and I will
frequently seen, but never with such emotions as when I beheld the Antarctic
from such a fiendish man!  They were bent on profitable cruises, the profit
frosts of mountains; the desolate shiftings of the windrowed snows of
full of a soft, dewy, distant dreaminess?  Or why, irrespective of all
fully acquainted with the ways of the leviathans, it might seem an absurdly
furnished him.  A most imperial and archangelical apparition of that unfallen,
ghostliness of repose in that creature, when beheld in his ordinary moods,
glories of those primeval times when Adam walked majestic as a god,
gracious thing he will by whiteness, no man can deny that in its profoundest
great principle of light, for ever remains white or colorless in itself, and
great, unflattering laureate, Nature.
had been captured or seen.  While thus employed, the heavy pewter lamp
had perished.  That before living agent, now became the living instrument.  If
harbor the conceit, that for those very reasons he was all the better
has been denominated the White Squall.  Nor, in some historic instances, has
has been made the symbol of the divine spotlessness and power; by the Persian
hatches --don't you hear it --a cough--it sounded like a cough.  Cough be
he had sanely brought to bear upon any one reasonable object.  This is much;
he swung to the mad rockings of the gales.  And, when running into more
head of a crew, too, chiefly made up of mongrel renegades, and castaways, and
heard Stubb tell Flask, one morning watch, that there was something of that
heightens the effect of that passage in Froissart, when, masked in the snowy
hence, by bringing together two such opposite emotions in our minds, the
him in particular latitudes; could arrive at reasonable surmises, almost
himself before it, you would have seen him intently study the various lines
himself blind at the monumental white shroud that wraps all the prospect
his cabin, Ahab thus pondered over his charts.  Almost every night they were
his hammock to view his ship sailing through a midnight sea of milky whiteness
his hidden self, raved on.  Human madness is oftentimes a cunning and most
his hot heart's shell upon it.
his lofty, overscorning carriage.  He was the elected Xerxes of vast herds of
his mates thanked God the direful madness was now gone; even then, Ahab, in
his old acquaintances on shore but half dreamed of what was lurking in him
hopeless task thus to seek out one solitary creature in the unhooped oceans of
horrible to him as a real ghost; in vain the lead assures him he is still off
hue.  It cannot well be doubted, that the one visible quality in the aspect of
human race itself, giving the white man ideal mastership over every dusky
hunters believe that, could he be closely observed and studied throughout the
ideality, who happens to be but loosely acquainted with the peculiar
idealized significance it calls up a peculiar apparition to the soul.  But
if
immensities of the universe, and thus stabs us from behind with the thought
immitigable, and supernatural revenge.  Here, then, was this grey-headed,
in invariability to those of the herring-shoals or the flights of swallows.
in itself, to heighten that terror to the furthest bounds.  Witness the white
in our superstitions do we fail to throw the same snowy mantle round our
in some peaceful valley of Vermont, far removed from all beasts of prey --why
incapacitated for that, yet such an one would seem superlatively competent to
instinct of the knowledge of the demonism in the world.  Though
intervals during the passage, he was a raving lunatic; and, though unlimbed
into some still subtler form.  Ahab's full lunacy subsided not, but
irresistible arm drag?  What skiff in tow of a seventy-four can stand still?
is it that upon the sunniest day, if you but shake a fresh buffalo robe
is there apart from the traditions of dungeoned warriors and kings (which
is under him again.  Yet where is the mariner who will tell thee, Sir, it was
it so very unlikely, that far from distrusting his fitness for another whaling
it was not this night in particular that, in the solitude of
it?  To analyse it, would seem impossible.  Can we, then, by the citation of
its intensity completely overpowered all the rest; and yet so mystical and
japonicas, and pearls; and though various nations have in some way recognised
keyed in him, Ahab had purposely sailed upon the present voyage with the
kill, or change, or shun the fact; he likewise knew that to mankind he did
king's ghost in supernatural distress.  Through its inexpressible, strange
knife in hand, he had but given loose to a sudden, passionate, corporal
landscape of snows --a colorless, all-color of atheism from which we shrink?
latitudes and longitudes, does the name of the White Sea exert such a
left behind him with the Cape Horn swells, and he came forth from his dark
legendary record of
legerdemain in the powers of frost and air, he, shivering and half
like that chosen star which every evening leads on the hosts of light.  The
like two or three sleepers turning over, now!  Caramba!  have done,
lines and courses on the wrinkled charts, some invisible pencil was also
locker in the transom, and bringing out a large wrinkled roll of yellowish
long lacquered mild afternoons on the waves, followed by the gaudiest and yet
lurks the secret of the spell; a truth the more evinced in this, that by a
magniloquent ascriptions of dominion; and the modern kings of Siam unfurling
man can follow another into these halls.  And though, doubtless, some at least
matter like this, subtlety appeals to subtlety, and without imagination no
monuments and splintered crosses.  But thou sayest, methinks this white-lead
more loathsome than terrific, to the dumb gloating of their aspect.  So that
more terrible than all the whooping imps of the Blocksburg?  Nor is it,
moreover intensified by his delirium, that his mates were forced to lace him
most maddens and torments; all that stirs up the lees of things; all truth
most men, yet few perhaps were entirely conscious of them at the time, and
much more strongly on the imagination of an untravelled American, than those
muskiness --why will he start, snort, and with bursting eyes paw the ground in
narrow-flowing monomania, not one jot of Ahab's broad madness had been left
naught.  Though in many natural objects, whiteness refiningly enhances
never!  But some time after, I learned that goney was some seaman's name for
not but occasionally awaken in any man's soul some alarm, there was another
not so much the fear of striking hidden rocks, as the fear of that hideous
not the fierce-fanged tiger in his heraldic coat can so stagger courage as the
not yet have we solved the incantation of this whiteness, and learned why it
nothing but the charnel-house within; and when we proceed further, and
now long dissemble; in some sort, did still.  But that thing of his
of Pegu placing the title Lord of the White Elephants above all their other
of a leg, yet such vital strength yet lurked in his Egyptian chest, and was
of annihilation, when beholding the white depths of the milky way?  Or is it,
of one part of their sacred vesture, the alb or tunic, worn beneath the
of plumage.  I cannot tell, can only hint, the things that darted through me
of the imaginative impressions about to be presented may have been shared by
of the quarter-deck, they were careful not to speak or rustle their feet.
of the sacred White Dog was by far the holiest festival of their theology,
of the sperm whale.  Besides, when making a passage from one feeding-ground to
of the white belt of wampum was the deepest pledge of honor; though in many
one only and all-engrossing object of hunting the White Whale.  Had any one of
operating without medium upon matter, would touch all objects, even tulips and
or right-mindedness in Starbuck, the invulnerable jollity of indifference
other earthly hues --every stately or lovely emblazoning --the sweet tinges of
other funereal music.  Now, in allusion to the white, silent stillness of
other storied structures, its neighbors --the Byward Tower, or even the
other world, as of mortal trepidation here.  And from that pallor of the dead,
otherwise than but naturally grieved, and that to the quick, with the
over inside of ye --nothing else.  Look to the bucket!
over the fancy, while that of the Yellow Sea lulls us with mortal thoughts of
pallor unrestingly glides through the green of the groves --why is this phantom
peculiarity is most vividly hit by the French in the name they bestow upon
perhaps, in the mere fancying of the eternal frosted desolateness reigning at
perils; for what knows he, this New England colt, of the black bisons of
personified, and made practically assailable in Moby Dick.  He piled upon the
phantoms; all ghosts rising in a milk-white fog --Yea, while these terrors
phrensies of affright?  There is no remembrance in him of any gorings of wild
popularize profundities, and all truth is profound.  Winding far down from
prairies, which this instant they may be trampling into dust.  Thus, then,
prairies; all these, to Ishmael, are as the shaking of that buffalo robe to
precise time of his bodily dismemberment.  Then, in darting at the monster,
presented himself, always to the bravest Indians he was the object of
prudent isle were inclined to
qualified and set on edge, for a pursuit so full of rage and wildness as the
race from Adam down; and then, as if his chest had been a mortar, he burst
rain; nor the sight of her wide field of leaning spires, wrenched
ratification of his purpose with his crew, you would have seen him go to a
reasons that there is such a dumb blankness, full of meaning, in a wide
refer to piles of old log-books beside him, wherein were set down the seasons
rending, goring bison herds are as present as to the deserted wild foal of the
rigid pallor of an apoplexy that fixes its own distortions.  I know that, to
roses, with its own blank tinge --pondering all this, the palsied universe lies
round him, then he feels
round its neck, with the ship's time and place; and then letting it escape.
sadder souls, to those vast Roman halls of Thermes; where far beneath the
sailing in the pequod on the present voyage, sat brooding on his brow.  Nor is
sails in all imaginations?  Not Coleridge first threw that spell; but God's
same hue is made the emblem of many touching, noble things --the innocence of
scenery of the Antarctic seas; where at times, by some infernal trick of
scuttle-butt near the taffrail.  In this manner, they passed the buckets to
sea charts, spread them before him on his screwed-down table.  Then seating
sea from Nantucket; you're the chap.  Grin away; we'll see what turns up.
secret intelligence from the Deity --mostly swim in
seize us, let us add, that even the king of terrors, when personified by the
separately regarded, which heightens the intolerable hideousness of that
ship, and for ever threw shifting gleams and shadows of lines upon his
shipmate, will ye?  It's the three soaked biscuits ye eat for supper turning
shipwrecked, instead of rainbows speaking hope and solace to his misery,
sleepiest of sunsets?  Or, to choose a wholly unsubstantial instance, purely
small-headed, bluff-chested, and with the dignity of a thousand monarchs in
snow-white bull; and though to the noble Iroquois, the midwinter sacrifice
so wide, and in those for ever exiled waters, I had lost the miserable
solecism of terms there are birds called grey albatrosses; and these I have
some dim, unsuspected way, he might have seemed the gliding great demon of
some of those instances wherein this thing of whiteness --though for the time
somewhere those things must exist.  Though in many of its aspects this visible
sort in the wind.  Tish!  the bucket!
souls!  question that proud, sad king!  A family likeness!  aye, he did beget
soundings; heart and helm they both go down; he never rests till blue water
specially employed in the celebration of the Passion of our Lord; though in
spectralness
stampedoes of her frantic seas: nor the tearlessness of arid skies that never
steeds; though even in the higher mysteries of the most august religions it
stormed his general sanity, and carried it, and turned all its concentred
straight wake, yet the arbitrary vein in which at these times he is said to
strangely tallies with the same quality in the Polar quadruped.  This
strikes more of panic to the soul than that redness which affrights in blood.
subtle demonisms of life and thought; all evil, to crazy Ahab, were visibly
such a furious trope may stand, his special lunacy
such vast altitudes, and the natural conceit of what a fearfulness it would
sufferable latitudes, the ship, with mild stun'sails spread, floated across
sunset skies and woods; yea, and the gilded velvets of butterflies, and the
surrenderest to a hypo, Ishmael.  Tell me, why this strong young colt, foaled
suspended in chains over his head, continually rocked with the motion of the
swim, generally embraces some few miles in width (more or less, as the vein
symbol of their faction, the desperate White Hoods of Ghent murder their
symbolize whatever grand or
terrible casualty which had overtaken him.  The report of his undeniable
terrible.  From its snowy aspect, the gauntleted ghost of the Southern Seas
terror.  But there are other instances where this whiteness loses all that
than the ugliest abortion.  Why should this be so?  Nor, in quite other
that as in essence whiteness is not so much a color as the visible absence of
that bird upon our deck.  For neither had I then read the Rhyme, nor knew
that by its indefiniteness it shadows forth the heartless voids and
that fish.  The Romish mass for the dead begins with Requiem eternam
that ground in search of his prey.  So assured, indeed, is the fact concerning
that intensified terror.  As for the white shark, the white gliding
that spotless, faithful creature being held the purest envoy they could send
the Vision of St.  John, white robes are given to the redeemed, and the
the art of human malice omitted so potent an auxiliary.  How wildly it
the bare mention of that name, while the thought of Virginia's Blue Ridge is
the bird to be an albatross.  Yet, in saying this, I do but indirectly
the coasts of foreign lands, if by night he hear the roar of breakers, starts
the common apprehension, this phenomenon of whiteness is not confessed to be
the dead which most appals the gazer, is the marble pallor lingering there;
the direction taken by any one whale be straight as a surveyor's parallel, and
the frightened colt!  Though neither knows where lie the nameless things of
the muffled rollings of a milky sea; the bleak rustlings of the festooned
the occasional flap of a sail, and the steady hum of the unceasingly
the periodicalness of the sperm whale's resorting to given waters, that many
the plains, like an Ohio; or whether with his circumambient subjects browsing
the prime agent in exaggerating the terror of objects otherwise terrible; nor
the same imperial hue; and though this pre-eminence in it applies to the
the same snow-white quadruped in the royal standard; and the Hanoverian flag
the same sorcery, however modified; --can we thus hope to light upon some
the seas of life, --all this to explain, would be to dive deeper than Ishmael
the strangest, saddest city thou can'st see.  For Lima has taken the white
the tranquil tropics, and, to all appearances, the old man's delirium seemed
then, how soon would their aghast and righteous souls have wrenched the ship
therefore may not be able to recall them now.  Why to the man of untutored
things, nay, the very veil of the Christian's Deity; and yet should be as it
this mere aspect of all-pervading whiteness makes him more strangely hideous
this noble horse, that it was his spiritual whiteness chiefly, which so
this planet.  But not so did it seem to Ahab, who knew the sets of all tides
this to be true; yet, were it not for the whiteness, you would not have
though commanding worship, at the same time enforced a certain nameless
though the line of advance be strictly confined to its own unavoidable,
though without dissent this point be fixed, how is mortal man to account for
thought, or rather vague, nameless horror concerning him, which at times by
thousands of miles from Oregon, still when he smells that savage musk, the
throbbings shook it.  Though bodily unharmed, it uttered cries, as some
throned on torsoes!  So with a broken throne, the great gods mock that
to be counted down in dollars from the mint.  He was intent on an audacious,
to impart to it aught fearful, but, nevertheless, is found to exert over us
to the Great Spirit with the annual tidings of their own fidelity; and though
to the unimaginative mind is there aught of terror in those appearances whose
to vigilance, and feels just enough of trepidation to sharpen all his
too, all the added moodiness which always afterwards, to the very day of
tossed pack of cards; --it is not these things alone which make tearless Lima,
tracing lines and courses upon the deeply marked chart of his forehead.  But
trembling reverence and awe.  Nor can it be questioned from what stands on
tribe; and though, besides all this, whiteness has been
unbounded prairie sheeted with driven snow, no shadow of tree or twig to
ungodly old man, chasing with curses a Job's whale round the world, at the
universality.  What I mean by these two statements may perhaps be respectively
unrelenting fangs of some incurable idea; such an one, could he be found,
veil; and there is a higher horror in this whiteness of her woe.  Old as
views what seems a boundless church-yard grinning upon him with its lean ice
voyage, on account of such dark symptoms, the calculating people of that
warm nostrils reddening through his cool milkiness; in whatever aspect he
warping memories of traditions and of towns.  Long I gazed at that prodigy
was threading a maze of currents and eddies, with a view to the more certain
watch below, I ascended to the overclouded deck; and there, dashed upon the
well nigh ineffable was it, that I almost despair of putting it in a
were possessed, that at times his hate seemed almost theirs; the White Whale
were substituted.  For with the charts of all four oceans before him, Ahab
western world, which to the eyes of the old trappers and hunters revived the
whale's white hump the sum of all the general rage and hate felt by his whole
when with ivory leg he stepped ashore at last, no Nantucketer thought him
whence, in peculiar moods, comes that gigantic ghostliness over the soul at
which the mystic sign gives forth such hints; yet with me, as with the colt,
while yet all a-rush to encounter the whale, could see naught in that brute
white-shrouded bear or shark.  Bethink thee of the albatross, whence come those
whiteness it is which imparts such an abhorrent mildness, even
whiteness that so stirred me?  Second: To the native Indian of Peru, the
whiteness which invests him, a thing expressed by the name he bears.  The
whither leads his shaft by the ever shifting, muffled sound of his pick?  Who
wild horses, whose pastures in those days were only fenced by the Rocky
will not wholly account for it) that makes the White Tower of London tell so
winter that dreary, howling Patagonian Cape; then it was, that his torn body
with a hooked, Roman bill sublime.  At intervals, it arched forth its vast
with housings more resplendent than gold and silver-beaters could have
with malice in it; all that cracks the sinews and cakes the brain; all the
with such undeviating exactitude, that no ship ever sailed her course, by any
within the very heart of this spiked Hotel de Cluny where we here stand
world seems formed in love, the invisible spheres were formed in fright.  But
world; were the logs for one voyage of the entire whale fleet carefully
would seem the very man to dart his iron and lift his lance against the most
wrinkled brow, till it almost seemed that while he himself was marking out
ye then at the fiery hunt?
ye, that heard the hum of the old Quakeress's knitting-needles fifty miles at
ye, ye young exiled royalties; and from your grim sire only will the old
yet Ahab's larger, darker, deeper part remains unhinted.  But vain to
