




























     And all this mixes with your most mystic mood; so that fact and fancy,
     And jolly enough were
     Aye, sir, I think I can; all seams and dents but one.
     Come aboard, come aboard!  cried the gay Bachelor's commander, lifting a
     Look ye here, then, cried Ahab, passionately advancing, and leaning with
     Penetrating further and further into the
     Poor rover!  will ye never have done with all this weary roving?  Where go ye
     Rarmai (it will do; it is easy), he murmured at last, and signed to be
     The blacksmith availing himself of the mild,
     What's that bunch of lucifers dodging about there for?  muttered Stubb,
     When gliding by the Bashee isles we emerged
     With matted beard, and swathed in a
     and Ahab moodily stalked away with the weapon; the sound of his ivory leg,
     and seemed merely contrived for his own individual diversion.  And Ahab, he
     and so be unsolved to the last.  And this thought it must have been which
     and thereupon, when some expressed their delighted surprise, he, in
     be instantly brought to him, nor was there any denying him; seeing that, of
     bowsprit was seen the long lower jaw of the last whale they had slain.
     days' suffering, laid him in his hammock, close to the very sill of the door
     greeted my dear Pacific with uncounted thanks, for now the long supplication
     had the young and loving healthy wife listened with no unhappy nervousness,
     impenetrable Japans.  Thus this mysterious, divine Pacific zones the world's
     of hickory, with the bark still investing it, Ahab fitted the end to the
     story of his wretched fate.  Belated, and not innocently, one bitter winter's
     that --let us say it again --no dying Chaldee or Greek had higher and holier
     the Unshored; therefore, to the death-longing eyes of such men, who still
     the forge choked up with cinders; the house was sold; the mother dived down
     thy grave-stone, too, within the churchyard, and come hither, till we marry
     till at last, Perth, withdrawing his iron from the fire, began hammering it
-- Come hither, broken-hearted; here is another life without the guilt of
--but here --to work!  Fashioned at last into an arrowy shape, and welded by
--though long parched by the dead drought of the earthy life, --in ye, men yet
.. < chapter cxi 2  THE PACIFIC >
.. < chapter cxii 13  THE BLACKSMITH >
.. < chapter cxiii 2  THE FORGE >
.. < chapter cxiv 20  THE GILDER >
.. < chapter cxv 16  THE PEQUOD MEETS THE BACHELOR >
.. <p 474 >
.. <p 475 >
.. <p 476 >
.. <p 477 >
.. <p 478 >
.. <p 479 >
.. <p 479 >
.. <p 480 >
.. <p 481 >
.. <p 482 >
.. <p 483 >
.. <p 484 >
.. <p 485 >
.. <p 485 >
.. <p 486 >
.. <p 487 >
.. <p 487 >
.. <p 488 >
.. <p 489 >
A peculiar walk in this old man, a certain slight but painful appearing yawing
Ahab's brain, as standing like an iron statue at his accustomed place beside
Ahab.  But if these secret golden keys did seem to open in him his own secret
Antilles.  If ye find him, then comfort him; for he must be very sad; for
Bachelor, which had just wedged in her last cask of oil, and bolted down her
Bashee isles (in whose sweet woods mild lovers must be walking), and with
But ere he entered his cabin, a light, unnatural, half-bantering, yet most
Come hither!  bury thyself in a life which, to your now equally abhorred and
Daggoo!  What say ye, pagans!  Will ye give me as much blood as will cover
Death plucked down some virtuous elder brother, on whose whistling daily toil
Eternity.  An awe that cannot be named would steal over you as you sat by the
Evangelist St.  John.  And meet it is, that over these sea-pastures,
God, not that; yet I fear something, Captain Ahab.  Is not this harpoon for
Hark ye; if ye find Pip, tell all the Antilles he's a runaway; a coward, a
Hast lost any men?  Not enough to speak of --two islanders, that's all; --but
If.  But once gone through, we trace the round again; and are infants, boys,
Labor's iron lullaby, the blacksmith's infants were rocked to slumber.  Oh,
Lord and master over all this scene, the captain stood erect on the ship's
Nevertheless, this old man's was a patient hammer wielded by a patient arm.
No murmur, no impatience, no petulence did come from him.  Silent, slow, and
Perth to the shank, the steel soon pointed the end of the iron; and as the
Perth, resting for a moment on his hammer; I am past scorching; not easily
Queequeg in his own proper person was a riddle to unfold; a wondrous work in
Queequeg lay with closed eyes, as if in a dream.  Pip was led away, and the
Queequeg suddenly rallied; soon there seemed no need of the carpenter's box:
Queequeg, die; and I'll beat ye your dying march.  I have heard, murmured
Signals, ensigns, and jacks of all colors were flying from her rigging, on
Starbuck lowly murmured: -- Loveliness unfathomable, as ever lover saw in his
Starbuck, gazing down the scuttle, that in violent fevers, men, all
This done, pole, iron, and rope --like the Three Fates --remained inseparable,
When the last nail was driven, and the lid duly planed and fitted, he
With a wild whimsiness, he now used his coffin for a sea-chest; and emptying
You would have almost thought they were pulling down the cursed Bastile, such
a piece of sail-cloth being rolled up for a pillow, Queequeg now entreated to
abhorring, landed world, is more oblivious than death.  Come hither!  put up
across here. --Rig-a-dig, dig, dig!  huzza!  Oh for a game cock now to sit upon
acts of the gladness, and the one long, and as yet uncatastrophied fifth act
afterwards learned, the bachelor had met with the most surprising success;
all day upon smooth, slow heaving swells; seated in his boat, light as a
all else in him thinned, and his cheek-bones grew sharper, his eyes,
all misery in others that is not mad.  Thou should'st go mad, blacksmith;
all mortals, some dying men are the most tyrannical; and certainly, since they
all the indifferent promptitude of his character, proceeded into the
all the more wonderful, for that while cruising in the same seas numerous
all-contributed and all-receptive ocean alluringly spread forth his whole
almost any seams and dents; never mind how hard the metal, blacksmith?
an oil-butt, lashed down to the floor for a centrepiece.  In the forecastle,
ancient tongues had been really spoken in their hearing by some lofty
and feel thy heaviest hammer between my eyes.  Answer!  Can'st thou smoothe
and from the hearts of infinite Pacifics, the thousand mermaids sing to them
and lances, and jealously watching his every sooty movement, as he toiled.
and men, and Ifs eternally.  Where lies the final harbor, whence we unmoor no
and the hard pressed forge shooting up its intense straight flame, the Parsee
and the houseless, familyless old man staggered off a vagabond in crape; his
and the sound of the hickory pole, both hollowly ringing along every plank.
and twenty hours on the stretch, they were engaged in the boats, steadily
and two!  Let's make a General of him!  Ho, where's his harpoon?  Lay it
and walls, came up to her, not unsweetly, in her nursery; and so, to stout
anvil.  Look ye, blacksmith, these are the gathered nail-stubbs of the steel
any it had.  He lay without moving a few minutes, then told one to go to his
are only beat with water-lilies, will ye do one little errand for me?  Seek
aside.
at last the twelve rods were made, Ahab tried them, one by one, by spiralling
at last upon the great South Sea; were it not for other things, I could have
at the bottom of a well.  And a well, or an ice-house, it somehow proved to
at the masonry of the try-works, from which the huge pots had been removed.
away, Queequeg, to every one's consternation, commanded that the thing should
away, as if toil were life itself, and the heavy beating of his hammer the
bag and bring out his little god, Yojo.  Then crossing his arms on his breast
baptismal blood.  Now, mustering the spare poles from below, and selecting one
barrels of sperm; above which, in her top-mast cross-trees, you saw slender
basement of his dwelling, but with a separate entrance to it; so that always
be lifted into his final bed, that he might make trial of its comforts, if
beauty and brilliancy of the ocean's skin, one forgets the tiger heart that
begin welding the twelve into one, when Ahab stayed his hand, and said he
begrimed, blistered old blacksmith, had not removed his portable forge to
beheld who were bystanders when Zoroaster died.  For whatever is truly
beheld, must ever after be the sea of his adoption.  It rolls the midmost
being buried in his hammock, according to the usual sea-custom, tossed like
beneath; like those fabled undulations of the Ephesian sod over the buried
birch canoe; and so sociably mixing with the soft waves themselves, that
black tragedy of the melancholy ship, and mocked it!
blacksmith eyed the razors as though he would fain not use them.  Take them,
blacksmith was about giving the barbs their final heat, prior to tempering
blessed calms would last.  But the mingled, mingling threads of life are woven
boiler, and filled it; that the steward had plugged his spare coffee-pot and
bones of murderers.  Quick!  forge me the harpoon.  And forge me first, twelve
both feet.  Out of this revelation, part by part, at last came out the four
both hands on Perth's shoulders; look ye here -- here --can ye smoothe out a
boyhood's thoughtless faith, adolescence' doubt (the common doom), then
braided and woven round the socket of the harpoon; the pole was then driven
breakers of the
breakers of the milky way.  He added, that he shuddered at the thought of
bristling shark-skin apron, about mid-day, Perth was standing between his
brow.  Come along, will ye (merry's the play); a full ship and
burglar into his family's heart.  It was the Bottle Conjuror!  Upon the opening
burglar slid into his happy home, and robbed them all of everything.  And
bursting hatches; and now, in glad holiday apparel, was joyously, though
but base little Pip, he died a coward; died all a'shiver; --out upon Pip!
but with vigorous pleasure, to the stout ringing of her young-armed old
by warp and woof: calms crossed by storms, a storm for every calm.  There is
called ruin.  He had been an artisan of famed excellence, and with plenty to
can'st thou scorch a scar.  Well, well; no more.  Thy shrunk voice sounds
captain's and officers' staterooms.  Even the cabin table itself had been
captain's pantaloons pockets, and those he reserved to thrust his hands into,
captains in themselves impersonated the whole striking contrast of the scene.
chalking Queequeg's person as he shifted the rule.  Ah!  poor fellow!  he'll
cheerful-looking church, planted in a grove.  But one night, under cover of
chickens, Perth?  they are always flying in thy wake; birds of good omen,
circle, all waiting to be served; holding boat-spades, pike-heads, harpoons,
civilized; that while a sick, civilized man may be six months convalescing,
come aboard, old hearty, come along.  I'll soon take that black from your
commanded to do Queequeg's bidding, whatever it might include.  There was some
conceals a remorseless fang.  These are the times, when in his whale-boat the
coward, a coward!  Tell them he jumped from a whale-boat!  I'd never beat my
critical moment, he had just recalled a little duty ashore, which he was
cruising-ground, the old man's purpose intensified itself.  His firm lips met
dark canoes, and that the fancy of being so laid had much pleased him; for
darker yet to tell, the blacksmith himself did ignorantly conduct this
darkness, and further concealed in a most cunning disguisement, a desperate
day, too, gazing far down from his boat's side into that same golden sea,
delicious grief, and her orphans a truly venerable, legendary sire to dream
deliriously howled Ahab, as the malignant iron scorchingly devoured the
die yet, he averred.  They asked him, then, whether to live or die was a
die, or be weakened.  And like circles on the water, which, as they grow
do; owned a house and garden; embraced a youthful, daughter-like, loving
done, he marshalled the planks and his tools, and to work.
drawing near of Death, which alike levels all, alike impresses all with a
drawings; and it seemed that hereby he was striving, in his rude way, to copy
drawn from it, and then had the iron part placed in the coffin along with one
dreamy quietude, when beholding the tranquil
drums came from her forecastle; and drawing still nearer, a crowd of her men
earth, and a mystical treatise on the art of attaining truth; so that
easier to harvest.  Why tell the whole?  The blows of the basement hammer
elevated quarter-deck, so that the whole rejoicing drama was full before him,
every day grew more and more between; and each blow every day grew fainter
every preparation for death; now that his coffin was proved a good fit,
every side.  Sideways lashed in each of her three basketed tops were two
every woe unreverenced; his grey head a scorn to flaxen curls!  Death seems
extremity the rope was unstranded, and the separate spread yarns were all
fainter, expand; so his eyes seemed rounding and rounding, like the rings of
fall of eve, the blacksmith's soul responded, Aye, I come!  And so Perth
filled it; that the harpooneers had headed the sockets of their irons and
filled them; that indeed everything was filled with sperm, except the
finally given in; and so it came to pass that every one now knew the shameful
firmly secured aloft between the foremast and mainmast, three Long Island
fishery.  Often, in mild, pleasant weather, for twelve, fifteen, eighteen,
flights, some of which flew close to Ahab.  Are these thy Mother Carey's
flood-tide lifted him higher and higher towards his destined heaven.  Not a
for prudent, most wise, and economic reasons, the blacksmith's shop was in the
for the peculiarly active pursuits shortly to be anticipated, Perth, the
for things passed, the other all forebodings as to things to come --their two
forecastle and took Queequeg's measure with great accuracy, regularly
forge and anvil, the latter placed upon an iron-wood log, with one hand
from surveying poor Queequeg -- Oh, devilish tantalization of the gods!
from the ships she had met; and these were stowed along the deck, and in the
from these dark planks the coffin was recommended to be made.  No sooner was
gaffs and pikes to-day.  Look ye here!  jingling the leathern bag, as if it
generally speaking, a sick savage is almost half-well again in a day.  So, in
glass and a bottle in the air.  Hast seen the White Whale?  gritted Ahab in
glitteringly gazing into the weeping faces of her children; the bellows fell;
gloom; and as the two ships crossed each other's wakes --one all jubilations
golden treasuries, yet did his breath upon them prove but tarnishing.  Oh,
good luck bore down upon the moody Pequod, the barbarian sound of enormous
good time my Queequeg gained strength; and at length after sitting on the
gradations, and at the last one pause: --through infancy's unconscious spell,
grassy glades!  oh, ever vernal endless landscapes in the soul; in ye,
had barrels of beef and bread been given away to make room for the far more
had the young widow had a
half-humorous cries with which the people on deck began to drive the coffin
half-stupidly felt the deadly numbness stealing over him, and sought refuge
half-way meeting, interpenetrate, and form one seamless whole.  Nor did such
hard up into the socket; from the lower end the rope was traced half way along
hast here, then, the best and stubbornest stuff we blacksmiths ever work.  I
have left in them some interior compunctions against suicide, does the
have to die now, ejaculated the Long Island sailor.  Going to his
he caught a terrible chill which lapsed into a fever; and at last, after some
he spent, in carving the lid with all manner of grotesque figures and
he's left his tambourine behind; --I found it.  Rig-a-dig, dig, dig!  Now,
head, and a small bag of woody earth scraped up in the hold at the foot; and
heart of earth.  Lifted by those eternal swells, you needs must own the
heart of the Japanese cruising ground, the Pequod was soon all astir in the
heathenish, coffin-colored old lumber aboard, which, upon a long previous
heavy beating of his heart.  And so it was. --Most miserable!
here.  No, no!  shame upon all cowards --shame upon them!  Let 'em go drown
hidden bodies widely wade through the amazing verdure.  The long-drawn virgin
high rolling waves, but through the tall grass of a rolling prairie: as when
hilarious jig.  Meanwhile, others of the ship's company were tumultuously busy
him, poor pagan; where, strange to say, for all the heat of his sweatings,
his head and crow!  queequeg dies game! --mind ye that; queequeg dies game! --
history; but here Stubb takes oaths that he has always been jolly!
hoisted boat, and poising a harpoon, pronounced himself fit for a fight.
holding a pike-head in the coals, and with the other at his forge's lungs,
hovering near by all this while, drew nigh to him where he lay, and with
hull, Stern all!  the White Whale spouts thick blood!
hum; you almost swear that play-wearied children lie sleeping in these
hummed like a harp-string, then eagerly bending over it, and seeing no
husband's hammer; whose reverberations, muffled by passing through the floors
ignorance, have talked in ancient tongues; and that when the mystery is
in a leaning, dilapidated barn.  The issue was, the loss of the extremities of
in his gait, had at an early period of the voyage excited the curiosity of
in self-complacent testimony of his entire satisfaction.  As this glad ship of
in which the hated White Whale must even then be swimming.  Launched at length
indulged.  Leaning over in his hammock, Queequeg long regarded the coffin
intermediate death; here are wonders supernatural, without dying for them.
into Ahab's bent face.  Would'st thou brand me, Perth?  wincing for a moment
into it his canvas bag of clothes, set them in order there.  Many spare hours
into the long church-yard grass; her children twice followed her thither;
into the sea.
involved but uncertain steering, and much lee-way adown the dim ages.  Now,
isles, but that far beyond all visible horizons, their own mild,
it all hissing into the cask of water near by, the scalding steam shot up
it was humorously added, that the cook had clapped a head on his largest
it was not unlike the custom of his own race, who, after embalming a dead
it.  And can'st thou make it all smooth, again, blacksmith, after such hard
kidnapping cannibal ways.  Let faith oust fact; let fancy oust memory; I
knocked into kindling-wood; and the cabin mess dined off the broad head of
know it, old man; these stubbs will weld together like glue from the melted
last revelation, which only an author from the dead could adequately tell.  So
launching into the region of the strange Untried; it is but the first
lay Queequeg in his coffin with little but his composed countenance in view.
leaped up in that same golden light: -- I am Stubb, and Stubb has his
learned that all whalemen who died in Nantucket, were laid in those same
leathern bag.  While yet a little distance from the forge, moody Ahab paused;
leaving undone; and therefore had changed his mind about dying: he could not
lightly shouldered the coffin and went forward with it, inquiring whether they
like Pip, that jumped from a whale-boat.  Shame!  shame!  During all this,
like a whale-boat these coffin-canoes were without a keel; though that
like hearth-stone cats they purr against the gunwale; these are the times of
like his own fin-bone.  There's the stuff, flinging the pouch upon the
like the lips of a vice; the Delta of his forehead's veins swelled like
like the yarns and strands of a tow-line.  Quick!  I'll blow the fire.  When
live heart beat against them; and these mysteries were therefore destined in
look deep down and do believe.  And Stubb, fish-like, with sparkling scales,
look!
looking on from the forecastle.  That Parsee smells fire like a fusee; and
lunacy, brings heavenly vouchers of all our heavenly homes.  Where learned he
made the transfer permanent by cutting two notches at its extremities.  This
made up his mind to live, mere sickness could not kill him: nothing but a
make them thyself, man.  Here are my razors --the best of steel; here, and make
making there?  Welding an old pike-head, sir; there were seams and dents in
man of the crew but gave him up; and, as for Queequeg himself, what he
man, I have no need for them; for I now neither shave, sup, nor pray till
marks, had written out on his body a complete theory of the heavens and the
mast-head wore long streamers of narrow red bunting at their hats; from the
mates and harpooneers were dancing with the olive-hued girls who had eloped
matter of his own sovereign will and pleasure.  He answered, certainly.  In a
may roll, like young horses in new morning clover; and for some few fleeting
midnight, on the road running between two country towns, the blacksmith
milky-ways of coral isles, and low-lying, endless, unknown Archipelagoes, and
moments, feel the cool dew of the life immortal on them.  Would to God these
more?  in what rapt ether sails the world, of which the weariest will
morning watch, when the day was just breaking, and taking his hand, said
nearly sixty, had postponedly encountered that thing in sorrow's technicals
negroes, with glittering fiddle-bows of whale ivory, were presiding over the
never weary?  Where is the foundling's father hidden?  Our souls are like
nevertheless, seemed growing fuller and fuller; they became of a strange
no steady unretracing progress in this life; we do not advance through fixed
now almost incessantly invoked by the headsmen, and harpooneers, and bowsmen
now?  But if the currents carry ye to those sweet Antilles where the beaches
of death.  How he wasted and wasted away in those few long-lingering days,
of in their after years; and all of them a care-killing competency.  But
of it taken to the windlass, and
of mixed shades and shadows, drowned dreams, somnambulisms, reveries; all
of my skull -- that is all wrinkles!  But, away with child's play; no more
of my youth was answered; that serene ocean rolled eastwards from me a
of poor Queequeg, as he quietly lay in his swaying hammock, and the rolling
of that fatal cork, forth flew the fiend, and shrivelled up his home.  Now,
of the grief of his life's drama.  He was an old man, who, at the age of
of the paddles of his boat.  All by his own request, also, biscuits were
on the anvil, Perth passing to him the glowing rods, one after the other,
one complete rod, received its final heat; and as perth, to temper it, plunged
one to him in the grey
one volume; but whose mysteries not even himself could read, though his own
one?  aye, blacksmith, it is the one; aye, man, it is unsmoothable; for
other good-humoredly.  Come aboard!  Thou are too damned jolly.  Sail on.
other vessels had gone entire months without securing a single fish.  Not only
out one Pip, who's now been missing long: I think he's in those far
overladen brooks; in his very sleep, his ringing cry ran through the vaulted
pants beneath it; and would not willingly remember, that this velvet paw but
parchment-like poke or stomach skin of the black fish, gave forth a loud roar
parts of the twisted tattooing on his body.  And this tattooing, had been the
passed silently, and bowing over his head towards the fire, seemed invoking
paternity lies in their grave, and we must there to learn it.  And that same
piteous sound was heard.  Oh, Pip!  thy wretched laugh, thy idle but
placed over him.  The head part turned over with a leather hinge, and there
plain of unimaginable, taking terrors, and wonderful, new-life adventures;
planted by the recentest race of men, and lave the faded but still gorgeous
probed, it turns out always that in their wholly forgotten childhood those
pulling, or sailing, or paddling after the whales, or for an interlude of
punctures were made in the heathen flesh, and the White Whale's barbs were
replaced in his hammock.  But ere this was done, Pip, who had been slily
reply.  No; only heard of him; but don't believe in him at all, said the
restlessness.  To any meditative Magian rover, this serene Pacific, once
revealing only the tops of her masts, seems struggling forward, not though
rigging, with one nostril he unthinkingly snuffed the sugary musk from the
rods for its shank; then wind, and twist, and hammer these twelve together
rover softly feels a certain filial, confident, land-like feeling towards the
salutation to the possibilities of the immense Remote, the Wild, the Watery,
same precious fluid; and nailed to her main truck was a brazen lamp.  As was
same waves wash the moles of the new-built Californian towns, but yesterday
say, why dost thou not go mad?  How can'st thou endure without being mad?  Do
scepticism, then disbelief, resting at last in manhood's pondering repose of
scholars.  So, to my fond faith, poor Pip, in this strange sweetness of his
sea seemed gently rocking him to his final rest, and the ocean's invisible
sea; that he regards it as so much flowery earth; and the distant ship
seam like this, blacksmith, sweeping one hand across his ribbed brow;;if
seductive god, bowing your head to Pan.  But few thoughts of Pan stirred
shoes of racing horses.  Horse-shoe stubbs, sir?  Why, Captain Ahab, thou
sick man was replaced in his hammock.  But now that he had apparently made
sickness, a wondrous testimony to that immortal health in him which could not
side of this waning savage, and saw as strange things in his face, as any
sixty or seventy minutes calmly awaiting their uprising; though with but
skirts of Asiatic lands, older than Abraham; while all between float
slumberers in their beds; the ever-rolling waves but made so by their
small success for their pains.  At such times, under an abated sun; afloat
smells of it himself, like a hot musket's powder-pan.  At last the shank, in
socket of the iron.  A coil of new tow-line was then unwound, and some fathoms
soft sobbings, took him by the hand; in the other, holding his tambourine.
softness of lustre; and mildly but deeply looked out at you there from his
solely hung the responsibilities of some other family, and left the worse
solemn; bowing over still further his chronically broken back, he toiled
solitudes, in some glad May-time, when the flowers of the woods are plucked.
some curse or some blessing on the toil.  But, as Ahab looked up, he slid
something vile to the death-devouring sharks.  No: he desired a canoe like
somewhat vain-gloriously, sailing round among the widely-separated ships on
soothing scenes, however temporary, fail of at least as temporary an effect on
stern, a whale-boat was suspended, bottom down; and hanging captive from the
still retained it on deck, fast lashed to ringbolts by the foremast; being
strandings, ahab exclaimed, good!  and now for the seizings.  At one
stretched to a great tension.  Pressing his foot upon it, till the rope
stretching, yawned a little bit, and then springing into the head of his
substance, said, that the cause of his sudden convalescence was this; --at a
suddenly leaped to his feet, threw out arms and legs, gave himself a good
suggested to Ahab that wild exclamation of his, when one morning turning away
summer-cool weather that now reigned in these latitudes, and in preparation
take ye good heed of that; Queequeg dies game!  I say; game, game, game!
taken this old blacksmith to thyself ere his full ruin came upon him, then
tambourine over base Pip, and hail him General, if he were once more dying
than the last; the wife sat frozen at the window, with tearless eyes,
than useless old man standing, till the hideous rot of life should make him
that sort.  Now, there is this noteworthy difference between savage and
that we call lives and souls, lie dreaming, dreaming, still; tossing like
that while in Nantucket he had chanced to see certain little canoes of dark
that, but there? --Hark!  he speaks again: but more wildly now.  Form two
that; I want it of the true death-temper.  Ahoy, there!  Tashtego, Queequeg,
the White Whale?  For the white fiend!  But now for the barbs; thou must
the barbs sharp as the needle-sleet of the Icy Sea.  For a moment, the old
the carpenter apprised of the order, than taking his rule, he forthwith with
the end to moulder away with the living parchment whereon they were inscribed,
the ground, previous to pointing her prow for home.  The three men at her
the heavens yet hate thee, that thou can'st not go mad? --What wert thou
the hold again, after concluding his contributory work for Ahab's leg, but
the last one.  Work that over again, Perth.  This done, Perth was about to
the mariners.  And to the importunity of their persisted questionings he had
the mizen
the only desirable sequel for a career like this; but Death is only a
the other consciously inhaled the salt breath of the new found sea; that sea
the pole's length, and firmly secured so, with intertwistings of twine.
the sailors had actually caulked and pitched their chests, and filled them;
the sights and the sounds that came bearing down before the wind, some few
the western emigrants' horses only show their erected ears, while their
thee!  Hearkening to these voices, East and West, by early sun-rise, and by
them, he cried to Ahab to place the water-cask near.  No, no --no water for
them, with his own hand, round a long, heavy iron bolt.  A flaw!  rejecting
then ranged round the sides within: a flask of fresh water was placed at the
then tempered.  Ego non baptizo te in nomine patris, sed in nomine diaboli!
this barb?  holding it high up.  A cluster of dark nods replied, Yes.  Three
this sea, whose gently awful stirrings seem to speak of some hidden soul
this seam?  Oh!  that is the one, sir!  Said I not all seams and dents but
those of Nantucket, all the more congenial to him, being a whaleman, that
those orphans whose unwedded mothers die in bearing them: the secret of our
thou could'st, blacksmith, glad enough would I lay my head upon thy anvil,
though thou only see'st it here in my flesh, it has worked down into the bone
thought of his case was forcibly shown by a curious favor he asked.  He called
thoughts than those, whose mysterious shades you saw creeping over the face
thousand leagues of blue.  There is, one knows not what sweet mystery about
till there seemed but little left of him but his frame and tattooing.  But as
to do some little job for them; altering, or repairing, or new shaping their
to every stroke of the clenched hands of the crew.  On the quarter-deck, the
to the starry archipelagoes; for not only do they believe that the stars are
too calmly, sanely woful to me.  In no Paradise myself, I am impatient of
too was standing on his quarter-deck, shaggy and black, with a stubborn
too, but not to all; --look here, they burn; but thou--thou liv'st among them
transferringly measured on it the exact length the coffin was to be, and then
uncontinented seas, interflow with the blue heavens; and so form the white
unresting eye; all thy strange mummeries not unmeaningly blended with the
upon him there; where, stripped to his woollen drawers, the tattooed savage
upon the anvil --the red mass sending off the sparks in thick hovering
upon these almost final waters, and gliding towards the Japanese
usage as it had?  I think so, sir.  And I suppose thou can'st smoothe
vales; the mild blue hill-sides; as over these there steals the hush, the
valuable sperm, but additional supplemental casks had been bartered for,
various weapons and boat furniture.  Often he would be surrounded by an eager
vice-bench, the carpenter for convenience' sake and general reference, now
voyage, had been cut from the aboriginal groves of the Lackaday islands, and
warrior, stretched him out in his canoe, and so left him to be floated away
was crawling about amid that dampness and slime, like a green spotted lizard
waters of the world, the Indian ocean and Atlantic being but its arms.  The
waves should rise and fall, and ebb and flow unceasingly; for here, millions
weeks after Ahab's harpoon had been welded.  It was a Nantucket ship, the
went a-whaling.
were full of gold coins.  I, too, want a harpoon made; one that a thousand
were ready for it yet in that direction.  Overhearing the indignant but
were seen standing round her huge try-pots, which, covered with the
whale, or a gale, or some violent, ungovernable, unintelligent destroyer of
when captain ahab came along, carrying in his hand a small rusty-looking
when this strange circumstance was made known aft, the carpenter was at once
whole bulk about; makes all coasts one bay to it; seems the tide-beating
wide-rolling watery prairies and Potters' Fields of all four continents, the
wife, and three blithe, ruddy children; every Sunday went to a
wild cries they raised, as the now useless brick and mortar were being hurled
will shortly trouble us so little for evermore, the poor fellows ought to be
windlass for a few indolent days (but eating with a vigorous appetite) he
with Yojo between, he called for the coffin lid (hatch he called it) to be
with an attentive eye.  He then called for his harpoon, had the wooden stock
with the pain; have I been but forging my own branding-iron, then?  Pray
with them from the Polynesian Isles; while suspended in an ornamented boat,
without a scorch.  Because I am scorched all over, Captain Ahab, answered
woe on woe!  Oh, Death, why canst thou not sometimes be timely?  Hadst thou
wondrous and fearful in man, never yet was put into words or books.  And the
wood, like the rich war-wood of his native isle; and upon inquiry, he had
word, it was Queequeg's conceit, that if a man
work of a departed prophet and seer of his island, who, by those hieroglyphic
would weld his own iron.  As, then, with regular, gasping hems, he hammered
yoke of fiends could not part, Perth; something that will stick in a whale
young bride's eye! --Tell me not of thy teeth-tiered sharks, and thy
