




























     Already has it been
     Besides her hoisted boats, an American
     Had you descended from the Pequod's
     Had you stepped on board the Pequod at a
     It was but some few days after
     No boat-knife was lifted when he fell so rapidly astern.  Stubb's inexorable
     That whale of Stubb's so dearly
     always the whale-ship's stokers.  With huge pronged poles they pitched
     and have a long talk with its inmates.  This place has previously been
     back, just in time to prevent the vessel from flying up into the wind, and
     broke to my fingers, and discharged all their opulence, like fully ripe
     but in the wife, the heart, the bed, the table, the saddle, the fire-side,
     eternally.  In thoughts of the visions of the night, I saw long rows of
     for one single moment you would have almost thought you were standing in
     from the boat, is still better.  Moreover, as if perceiving at last that if
     he did not mean to, at least.  Because there were two boats in his wake, and
     inclosed surface of the works.  By a tunnel inserted at the rear, this
     it operates like a leathern squilgee; and by nameless blandishments, as of
     my God!  who can tell it?  Mark, how when sailors in a dead calm bathe in
     now, since by many prolonged, repeated experiences, I have perceived that in
     occupying a conspicuous pulpit; intent on bible leaves; what a candidate for
     oil is much accelerated, and its quantity considerably increased, besides
     that at last I was continually squeezing their hands, and looking up into
     the baling of the Heidelburgh Tun, or Case.  While some were occupied with
     the morn will show in far other, at least gentler, relief; the glorious,
     though it seemed but a minute since I had been watching the card, by the
     whaleman, as he seeks the food of light, so he lives in light.  He makes his
     yet steadfastly shot her red hell further and further into the blackness of
.. < chapter xciii 15  THE CASTAWAY >
.. < chapter xciv 26  A SQUEEZE OF THE HAND >
.. < chapter xcv 6  THE CASSOCK >
.. < chapter xcvi 17  THE TRY-WORKS >
.. < chapter xcvii 9  THE LAMP >
.. < chapter xcviii 2  STOWING DOWN AND CLEARING UP >
.. <p 409 >
.. <p 410 >
.. <p 411 >
.. <p 412 >
.. <p 413 >
.. <p 413 >
.. <p 414 >
.. <p 415 >
.. <p 416 >
.. <p 417 >
.. <p 417 >
.. <p 418 >
.. <p 418 >
.. <p 418n. >
.. <p 419 >
.. <p 420 >
.. <p 421 >
.. <p 422 >
.. <p 423 >
.. <p 423 >
.. <p 424 >
Alas!  Stubb was but too true to his word.  It was a beautiful, bounteous,
And even if he for ever flies within the gorge, that gorge is in the
Bible leaves!  Bible leaves!  This is the invariable cry from the mates to
Bobbing up and down in that sea, Pip's ebon head showed like a head of cloves.
But it so happened, that those boats, without seeing Pip, suddenly spying
But that night, in particular, a strange (and ever since inexplicable)
Connecticut, he had once enlivened many a fiddler's frolic on the green; and
During the night-watches some cynical old sailors will crawl into them and
Here lounged the watch, when not otherwise employed, looking into the red
Hereby perhaps Stubb indirectly hinted, that though man loved his fellow,
I myself almost melted into it; I squeezed that sperm till a strange sort of
I sat down before a large Constantine's bath of it, I found it strangely
I.  Lo!  in my brief sleep I had turned myself about, and was fronting the
If he cuts off one of his own toes, or one of his assistants', would you be
Immemorial to all his order, this investiture alone will adequately protect
In outer aspect, Pip and Dough-Boy made a match, like a black pony and a
Kedron, as darkly set forth in the 15th chapter of the first book of Kings.
Leviathan's tail: it averages an inch in thickness, and for the rest, is
Leviathan.  Nippers.  Strictly this word is not indigenous to the whale's
Look at the sailor, called the mincer, who now comes along, and assisted by
Maachah in Judea; and for worshipping which, king Asa, her son, did depose
Pequod with the little negro Pippin by nick-name, Pip by abbreviation.  Poor
Pip loved life, and all life's peaceable securities; so that the
Pip!  ye have heard of him before; ye must remember his tambourine on that
Pip's ringed horizon began to expand around him miserably.  By the merest
Sahara, nor all the millions of miles of deserts and of griefs beneath the
Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, his spermaceti, oil, and bone pass unscathed
Solomon.  But even Solomon, he says, the man that wandereth out of the way
Some few hands are reserved called ship-keepers, whose province it is to work
Sorrows, and the truest of all books is Solomon's, and Ecclesiastes is the
Squeeze!  squeeze!  squeeze!  all the morning long; I squeezed that sperm till
Such a clearer!  such a sweetener!  such a softener!  such a delicious
The burning ship drove on, as if remorselessly commissioned to some vengeful
The intense concentration of self in the middle of such a heartless immensity,
There is a wisdom that is woe; but there is a woe that is madness.  And there
There is another substance, and a very singular one, which turns up in the
They generally go in pairs, --a pike-and-gaff-man and a spade-man.  The
Tranquilly permitting these irregular cursings to evaporate, Stubb then in a
Wrapped, for that interval, in darkness myself, I but the better saw the
a dead comrade from the field.  extending it upon the forecastle deck, he now
about the size of the iron part of a hoe.  Edgewise moved along the oily deck,
advice, and concluded with a peremptory command, Stick to the boat, Pip, or
again.  It was under very similar circumstances to the first performance; but
against a blue-veined neck, the pure-watered diamond drop will healthful
against his chest, he breasted it overboard with him, so as to become
all cases man must eventually lower, or at least shift, his conceit of
almost invariably in the fishery, a coward, so called, is marked with the same
ambergris affair Stubb's after-oarsman chanced so to sprain his hand, as
an abounding, affectionate, friendly, loving feeling did this avocation beget;
an archbishoprick, what a lad for a Pope were this mincer!
and also from the thicker portions of his flukes.  It is tough with congealed
and blow.  While still warm, the oil, like hot punch, is received into the
and for long hours silently guided the way of this fire-ship on the sea.
and jails, and walks fast crossing grave-yards, and would rather talk of
and lurches about.  Meanwhile, the spade-man stands on the sheet itself,
and pick him up; though, indeed, such considerations towards oarsmen
and that done, unofficially gave him much wholesome advice.  The substance
and there adhering to the blanket of blubber, and often participating to a
and vials, though --to the copper cooler at the try-works, and replenishes
and viciously spat round her on all sides; then the rushing Pequod, freighted
and weal or woe, feels then uncompromised, indifferent as his God.  For the
and which is two thirds of this earth.  So, therefore, that mortal man who
angels in paradise, each with his hands in a jar of spermaceti.  Now, while
anomaly of the most solid masonry joining with oak and hemp in constituting
another lonely castaway, though the loftiest and the brightest.  Now, in calm
any other race.  For blacks, the year's calendar should show naught but three
apart.  But, spite of all this, I could see no compass before me to steer by;
arm-holes at the other end, he lengthwise slips himself bodily into it.  The
as I should conceive a royal cutlet from the thigh of Louis le Gros might
as half a glimpse of that unaccountable cone, -- longer than a Kentuckian is
as the soundest advice ever is.  Now, in general, Stick to the boat, is
at last to that celestial thought, which, to reason, is absurd and frantic;
at melodious even-tide, with his gay ha-ha!  had turned the round horizon into
attainable felicity; not placing it anywhere in the intellect or the fancy;
back was turned upon him; and the whale was winged.  In three minutes, a
be luridly illumined by strange wild fires, that fictitiously showed him off
beautiful object to behold.  As its name imports, it is of an exceedingly
befell myself.
before his passive eyes; and the miser-merman, Wisdom, revealed his hoarded
began to credit the old Paracelsan superstition that sperm is of rare virtue
beheaded was killed) his great padded surtout becomes the property of his
beneath, till the snaky flames darted, curling, out of the doors to catch
berth an Aladdin's lamp, and lays him down in it; so that in the pitchiest
bewildered feeling, as of death, came over me.  Convulsively my hands grasped
blubber, now called scraps or fritters, still contains considerable of its
blue day; the spangled sea calm and cool, and flatly stretching away, all
bore down upon the turkish frigates, and folded them in conflagrations.  The
bound to any haven ahead as rushing from all havens astern.  A stark,
brick and mortar, some ten feet by eight square, and five in height.  The
brought by the lee!  look not too long in the face of the fire, O man!  Never
bulwarks, and with a capacious tub beneath it, into which the minced pieces
burning martyr, or a self-consuming misanthrope, once ignited, the whale
business of preparing the sperm whale for the try-works.  First comes
but happily, for that time, escaped close contact with the whale; and
butter in April.  He goes and hunts for his oil, so as to be sure of its
by a large, sloping, battened hatchway.  Removing this hatch we expose the
by the Lord, I wont pick you up if you jump; mind that.  We can't afford
called, is a term properly belonging to right whalemen, but sometimes
certain juncture of this post-mortemizing of the whale; and had you strolled
chance the ship itself at last rescued him; but from that hour the little
cistern in the whale's huge head; not the prodigy of his unhinged lower jaw;
co-laborers' hands in it, mistaking their hands for the gentle globules.  Such
coil themselves away there for a nap.  While employed in polishing them --one
concreted into lumps, here and there rolling about in the liquid part.  It
confess, that once I stole behind the foremast to try it.  It tasted something
conscious of something fatally wrong.  The jaw-bone tiller smote my side,
considerable degree in its unctuousness.  It is a most refreshing, convivial,
consists in mincing the horse-pieces of blubber for the pots; an operation
cook, fire the works.  This was an easy thing, for the carpenter had been
course of this business, but which I feel it to be very puzzling adequately
course; and all round the hoops, rap, rap, go as many hammers as can play
dark, and stumble in darkness to his pallet, this is his usual lot.  But the
deaden thee; as for the time it did me.
deck, like so many land slides, till at last man-handled and stayed in their
deed.  So the pitch and sulphur-freighted brigs of the bold Hydriote, Canaris,
deep; how he is then towed alongside and beheaded; and how (on the
depths, where strange shapes of the unwarped primal world glided to and fro
discoursing of sperm, it behooves to speak of other things akin to it, in the
divinest symbol of the crystal skies, looks like some crown-jewel stolen from
doors of iron.  The intense heat of the fire is prevented from communicating
dramatic midnight, so gloomy-jolly.
dream with thy hand on the helm!  Turn not thy back to the compass; accept
drop, fast as the sheets from a rapt orator's desk.  Arrayed in decent black;
duty!  no wonder that in old times this sperm was such a favorite cosmetic.
eccentric span.  But while hapless Dough-Boy was by nature dull and torpid in
effulgences, infernally superb; then the evil-blazing diamond, once the
encountering the Frenchman, that a most significant event befell the most
ended in providing the sometimes madly merry and predestinated craft with a
entangled in it, when at last plumping into the water.  That instant the
entire freedom the whaleman takes his handful of lamps --often but old bottles
entrapped, had most sadly blurred his brightness; though, as ere long will be
exclaimed interrogatively, cut?  meantime pip's blue, choked face plainly
executioner; how, in due time, he is condemned to the pots, and, like
features, now all begrimed with smoke and sweat, their matted beards, and
felt like eels, and began, as it were, to serpentine and spiralize.  As I sat
fiend shapes before me, capering half in smoke and half in fire, these at
find it needful.  Now upon the second lowering, the boat paddled upon the
fine hammered steel of woe.  All is vanity.  ALL.  This wilful world hath
fine vintage of the vineyards of Champagne.
flames, which at intervals forked forth from the sooty flues, and
for a time to become quite maimed; and, temporarily, Pip was put into his
for a time with wood.  After that no wood is used, except as a means of quick
for the pit.  By midnight the works were in full operation.  We were clear
forward nigh the windlass, pretty sure am I that you would have scanned with
foundation does not penetrate the deck, but the masonry is firmly secured to
free from all ill-will, or petulence, or malice, of any sort whatsoever.
freshness and genuineness, even as the traveller on the prairie hunts up his
from the carcase; sail had been made; the wind was freshening; the wild
from the whale, the white-horse is first cut into portable oblongs ere going
from the whale.  When the proper time arrives for cutting up its contents,
furnaces, directly underneath the pots.  These mouths are fitted with heavy
gaff is something like a boat-hook.  With his gaff, the gaffman hooks on to a
gives it a good stretching, so as almost to double its diameter; and at last
gliding so serenely along; as I bathed my hands among those soft, gentle
globules of infiltrated tissues, woven almost within the hour; as they richly
gloom, now and then made ghastly by flashes of redness.  Uppermost was the
glow; yet, when the cunning jeweller would show you the diamond in its most
go back for a moment.  It was about nine o'clock at night that the Pequod's
golden, glad sun, the only true lamp --all others but liars!  Nevertheless the
gorges, and soar out of them again and become invisible in the sunny spaces.
grapes their wine; as I snuffed up that uncontaminated aroma, --literally and
great try-pots, two in number, and each of several barrels' capacity.  When
had cooled and crystallized to such a degree, that when, with several others,
hangs it, well spread, in the
harpooneers wildly gesticulated with their huge pronged forks and dippers; as
hatch, removed from the top of the works, now afforded a wide hearth in front
hath more of joy than sorrow in him, that mortal man cannot be true --not true,
have tasted, supposing him to have been killed the first day after the venison
he is chased over the watery moors, and slaughtered in the valleys of the
he should give undiluted conscientious advice to Pip, he would be leaving him
he stands on will sometimes irresistibly slide away from him, like a sledge.
he supposed, no doubt, that they would of course come up to Pip very quickly,
headed over, end for end, and sometimes perilously scoot across the slippery
heaps; and among the joyous, heartless, ever-juvenile eternities, Pip saw the
heat of the fire, till their eyes felt scorched in their heads.  Their tawny
her own.  Now, in the whale ship, it is not every one that goes in the boats.
her, and destroyed the idol, and burnt it for an abomination at the brook
hermetically closed, like a closet walled up.  In the sperm fishery, this is
higher than other birds upon the plain, even though they soar.
him, while employed in the peculiar functions of his office.  That office
his benevolence.  But we are all in the hands of the Gods; and Pip jumped
his chest and neck.  Tashtego stood in the bows.  He was full of the fire of
his intellects, Pip, though over tender-hearted, was at bottom very bright,
hissing masses of blubber into the scalding pots, or stirred up the fires
hoisting operations previously detailed, were regularly gone through, even to
hundred and sixty-five Fourth of Julys and New Year's Days.  Nor smile so,
hunters in all similar instances; and such instances not unfrequently occur;
idol of Queequeg.  And an idol, indeed, it is; or, rather, in old times, its
if there happen to be an unduly slender, clumsy, or timorous wight in the
ignition to the staple fuel.  In a word, after being tried out, the crisp,
ill-humor or envy!  Come; let us squeeze hands all round; nay, let us all
illuminated every lofty rope in the rigging, as with the famed Greek fire.
impression, that whatever swift, rushing thing I stood on was not so much
impressive lustre, he lays it against a gloomy ground, and then lights it
in allaying the heat of anger: while bathing in that bath, I felt divinely
in some enchanted way, inverted.  My God!  what is the matter with me?  thought
in the sequel of the narrative, it will then be seen what like abandonment
incidentally used by the sperm fishermen.  It designates the dark, glutinous
indeed can the whale possibly be otherwise than fragrant, when, as a general
insanity came over me; and I found myself unwittingly squeezing my
insanity is heaven's sense; and wandering from all mortal reason, man comes
insignificant of the Pequod's crew; an event most lamentable; and which
into each other; let us squeeze ourselves universally into the very milk and
involuntary consternation of the moment caused him to leap, paddle in hand,
is a Catskill eagle in some souls that can alike dive down into the blackest
is a short firm strip of tendinous stuff cut from the tapering part of
is the term bestowed upon certain fragmentary parts of the whale's flesh, here
issuing from their midnight harbors, with broad sheets of flame for sails,
its brilliancy; behold yon lustrous ebony, panelled in king's cabinets.  But
its redness makes all things look ghastly.  To-morrow, in the natural sun,
its unmanufactured, and, therefore, unvitiated state; a fluid unknown to
itself to the deck, by means of a shallow reservoir extending under the entire
jeopardized through their own timidity, is not always manifested by the
lamps flashing upon his hooded eyes.  In merchantmen, oil for the sailor is
last begat kindred visions in my soul, so soon as I began to yield to that
leap into their faces.  Opposite the mouth of the works, on the further side
like the flames from the furnace; as to and fro, in their front, the
likeness was.  Such an idol as that found in the secret groves of Queen
living and ever accompanying prophecy of whatever shattered sequel might prove
looked, Do, for God's sake!  All passed in a flash.  In less than half a
loom, and spoke it; and therefore his shipmates called him mad.  So man's
magic, allures along with it all impurities.  But to learn all about these
main-mast, the most roomy part of the deck.  The timbers beneath are of a
man in each pot, side by side --many confidential communications are carried
masonry of that side is exposed, penetrated by the two iron mouths of the
meditation.  It was in the left hand try-pot of the Pequod, with the
mentioned as the receptacle for the blanket-pieces, when stript and hoisted
mincer now stands before you invested in the full canonicals of his calling.
minute, this entire thing happened.  Damn him, cut!  roared Stubb; and so
mollifier!  After having my hands in it for only a few minutes, my fingers
monomaniac commander's soul.  So seemed it to me, as I stood at her helm,
moon.  The sun hides not the ocean, which is the dark side of this earth,
more scarce than the milk of queens.  To dress in the dark, and eat in the
motion of a Sperm Whale's flukes above water dispenses a perfume, as when a
mountains; so that even in his lowest swoop the mountain eagle is still
much of which covers the decks of those inferior souls who hunt that ignoble
multitudinous, God-omnipresent, coral insects, that out of the firmament of
musk-scented lady rustles her dress in a warm parlor.  What then shall I liken
my soapstone for example, will descend from any point in precisely the same
narrated to each other their unholy adventures, their tales of terror told in
negro went about the deck an idiot; such, at least, they said he was.  The
night the ship's black hull still houses an illumination.  See with what
no external chimneys; they open direct from the rear wall.  And here let us
no small curiosity a very strange, enigmatical object, which you would have
not got hold of unchristian Solomon's wisdom yet.  But he who dodges hospitals
not in use, they are kept remarkably clean.  Sometimes they are polished
not only that, but you must live in it for the time.  It has an unspeakable,
not the miracle of his symmetrical tail; none of these would so surprise you,
ocean darkness was intense.  But that darkness was licked up by the fierce
of citron.  Spite of reason, it is hard to keep yourself from eating it.  I
of doors; though, it is true, seldom in the open air.  I say, that the
of it, towards the pointed extremity, and then cutting two slits for
of the dead.  Give not thyself up, then, to fire, lest it invert thee,
of the sea, poor Pip turned his crisp, curling, black head to the sun,
of the wide wooden hearth, was the windlass.  This served for a sea-sofa.
of them.  Standing on this were the Tartarean shapes of the pagan harpooneers,
of understanding shall remain ( i.  e.  even while living) in the congregation
on, over the iron lips.  It is a place also for profound mathematical
one star-belled tambourine.  So, though in the clear air of day, suspended
oozy, stringy affair, most frequently found in the tubs of sperm, after a
operas than hell; calls Cowper, Young, Pascal, Rousseau, poor devils all of
or undeveloped.  With books the same.  The truest of all men was the Man of
out of the boat; and in such a way, that part of the slack whale line coming
oversee the business.  All ready there?  Off hatch, then, and start her.  You
own smoke!  for his smoke is horrible to inhale, and inhale it you must, and
own supper of game.
panic-striking business in which he had somehow unaccountably become
part of the description by rehearsing --singing, if I may -- the romantic
peculiar strength, fitted to sustain the weight of an almost solid mass of
pelt of a boa.  This done he turns the pelt inside out, like a pantaloon leg;
perhaps improving it in quality.
perpendicularly chopping it into the portable horse-pieces.  This spade is
place.  The first time Stubb lowered with him, Pip evinced much nervousness;
plain, business-like, but still half humorous manner, cursed Pip officially;
ponderous knees of iron bracing it on all sides, and screwing it down to the
poor little negro was assailed by yells and execrations from the crew.
presto!  poor Pip came all foaming up to the chocks of the boat,
principle which entitled the headsman of old to the garments in which the
proceeding of decanting off his oil into the casks and striking them down into
proceeds cylindrically to remove its dark pelt, as an African hunter the
prolonged squeezing, and subsequent decanting.  I hold it to be the
purchased, was duly brought to the Pequod's side, where all those cutting and
putting my fingers to the lids and mechanically stretching them still further
pyres.  It smells like the left wing of the day of judgment; it is an argument
recondite matters, your best way is at once to descend into the blubber-room,
redness, the madness, the ghastliness of others.  The continual sight of the
related how the great leviathan is afar off descried from the mast-head; how
remorselessly dragged there by the line, which had taken several turns around
reservoir is kept replenished with water as fast as it evaporates.  There are
rest, blame not Stubb too hardly.  The thing is common in that fishery; and
revealed in the capricious emblazonings of the works.  As they
rich, mottled tint, with a bestreaked snowy and golden ground, dotted with
ride in a spring-carriage ashore.  But the awful lonesomeness is intolerable.
rigging, to dry.  Ere long, it is taken down; when removing some three feet
round, to the horizon, like gold-beater's skin hammered out to the extremest.
ruthless detestation peculiar to military navies and armies.
said that in a whaling voyage the first fire in the try-works has to be fed
sea had jeeringly kept his finite body up, but drowned the infinite of his
season, and that particular venison season contemporary with an unusually
seen there, lying along lengthwise in the lee scuppers.  Not the wondrous
seen, what was thus temporarily subdued in him, in the end was destined to
sharp as hone can make it; the spademan's feet are shoeless; the thing
sheath, he suspended its sharp edge over the line, and turning towards Stubb,
sheet of blubber, and strives to hold it from slipping, as the ship pitches
ship's stern, with my back to her prow and the compass.  In an instant I faced
ship, that wight is certain to be made a ship-keeper.  It was so in the
ship-keepers are as hardy fellows as the men comprising the boats' crews.  But
should we longer cherish any social acerbities, or know the slightest
shrivelled
sick men; and throughout a care-free lifetime swears by Rabelais as passing
side, lit by a dull lantern, a space has been left clear for the workmen.
sides.  But had Stubb really abandoned the poor little negro to his fate?  No;
six-barrel casks; and while, perhaps, the ship is pitching and rolling this
slices as possible, inasmuch as by so doing the business of boiling out the
sliding along beneath the surface as before; but, alas!  never more to rise
soapstone diligently circling round me, that I was first indirectly struck by
solar, lunar, or astral contrivances ashore.  It is sweet as early grass
some illuminated shrine of canonized kings and counsellors.  There they lay in
soon as filled with the sperm; and when the proper time arrived, this same
soul.  Not drowned entirely, though.  Rather carried down alive to wondrous
sperm of kindness.  Would that I could keep squeezing that sperm for ever!  For
sperm was carefully manipulated ere going to the try-works, of which anon.  It
spots of the deepest crimson and purple.  It is plums of rubies, in pictures
squeeze ourselves
steady binnacle lamp illuminating it.  Nothing seemed before me but a jet
stricken whale started on a fierce run, the line swiftly straightened; and
substance which is scraped off the back of the Greenland or right whale, and
sun hides not Virginia's Dismal Swamp, nor Rome's accursed Campagna, nor wide
supplies his own fuel and burns by his own body.  Would that he consumed his
tall, nigh a foot in diameter at the base, and jet-black as Yojo, the ebony
tendons --a wad of muscle --but still contains some oil.  After being severed
that blackness of darkness, seemed the material counterpart of her
that inexpressible sperm, I washed my hands and my heart of it; I almost
the King of Hell.  But let us to the story.  It came to pass, that in the
the Sperm Whale to for fragrance, considering his magnitude?  Must it not be
the completed ship.  it is as if from the open field a brick-kiln were
the contrasting barbaric brilliancy of their teeth, all these were strangely
the country; now that I have perceived all this, I am ready to squeeze case
the first hint of the hitching tiller; believe not the artificial fire, when
the hold, where once again leviathan returns to his native profundities,
the hunt.  He hated Pip for a poltroon.  Snatching the boat-knife from its
the last pint is casked, and all is cool, then the great hatchways are
the middle ages affected to detect a Jew in the company, by the nose.  Nor
the mincer.  It enjoins him to be careful, and cut his work into as thin
the open sea --mark how closely they hug their ship and only coast along her
the remarkable fact, that in geometry all bodies gliding along the cycloid,
the sea and the night, and scornfully champed the white bone in her mouth,
the ship there was a pitch of the boiling oil, which seemed all eagerness to
the skies will be bright; those who glared like devils in the forking flames,
the surface by
the tiller, but with the crazy conceit that the tiller was, somehow,
the vessel while the boats are pursuing the whale.  As a general thing, these
the whale was lost and Pip was saved.  So soon as he recovered himself, the
the wind howled on, and the sea leaped, and the ship groaned and dived, and
their eyes sentimentally; as much as to say, --Oh!  my dear fellow beings, why
their final rest in the sea.  This done, the hatches are replaced, and
their triangular oaken vaults, each mariner a chiselled muteness; a score of
them by the feet.  The smoke rolled away in sullen heaps.  To every pitch of
them there, as mugs of ale at a vat.  He burns, too, the purest of oil, in
there at my ease, cross-legged on the deck; after the bitter exertion at the
therefore came off not altogether discreditably; though Stubb observing him,
thing occurred to me.  Starting from a brief standing sleep, I was horribly
thing, he enjoys such high health; taking abundance of exercise; always out
this apartment is a scene of terror to all tyros, especially by night.  On one
this latter duty, others were employed in dragging away the larger tubs, so
this time he did not breast out the line; and hence, when the whale started
through the fire; --but now it remains to conclude the last chapter of this
thrusting his shavings into the furnace throughout the passage.  Here be it
timbers.  On the flanks it is cased with wood, and at top completely covered
time I lived as in a musky meadow; I forgot all about our horrible oath; in
time.  Removing the fire-board from the front of the try-works, the bare
to describe.  It is called slobgollion; an appellation original with the
to exhort him to cherish his courageousness to the utmost, for he might often
to lose whales by the likes of you; a whale would sell for thirty times what
to run, Pip was left behind on the sea, like a hurried traveller's trunk.
to shake in the wind; I thought my eyes were open; I was half conscious of
to ten times the natural lustre with which in his native Tolland County in
to that famous elephant, with jewelled tusks, and redolent with myrrh, which
to the mincer.  They look much like blocks of Berkshire marble.  Plum-pudding
tomb-stones, and break the green damp mould with unfathomably wondrous
too wide a margin to jump in for the future; Stubb suddenly dropped all
took care, afterwards,
transported to her planks.  The try-works are planted between the foremast and
truly, like the smell of spring violets; I declare to you, that for the
try-works to the Pequod's forecastle, where the off duty watch were sleeping,
try-works were first started on this present voyage.  It belonged to Stubb to
two allies, heavily backs the grandissimus, as the mariners call it, and
unaccountable drowsiness which ever would come over me at a midnight helm.
unctuous properties.  These fritters feed the flames.  Like a plethoric
unnatural hallucination of the night, and the fatal contingency of being
unsealed, the bowels of the ship are thrown open, and down go the casks to
up, not by the sun, but by some unnatural gases.  Then come out those fiery
upon them, for now, ex officio, every sailor is a cooper.  At length, when
very much astonished?  Toes are scarce among veteran blubber-room men.
very probably capsizing her.  How glad and how grateful the relief from this
vocabulary.  But as applied by whalemen, it becomes so.  A whaleman's nipper
was led out of an Indian town to do honor to Alexander the Great?
was now so far away, and he and all his crew so intent upon his fish, that
was our business to squeeze these lumps back into fluid.  A sweet and unctuous
was, Never jump from a boat, Pip, except --but all the rest was indefinite,
waters heaved the colossal orbs.  He saw God's foot upon the treadle of the
way and that in the midnight sea, the enormous casks are slewed round and
weather, to swim in the open ocean is as easy to the practised swimmer as to
whale; and as the fish received the darted iron, it gave its customary rap,
whalemen, and even so is the nature of the substance.  It is an ineffably
whaler is outwardly distinguished by her try-works.  She presents the curious
whales close to them on one side, turned, and gave chase; and Stubb's boat
whaling-pike is similar to a frigate's boarding-weapon of the same name.  The
which ever enjoy all holidays and festivities with finer, freer relish than
which happened, in this instance, to be right under poor Pip's seat.  The
which is conducted at a curious wooden horse, planted endwise against the
which leaned against it; in my ears was the low hum of sails, just beginning
while I write that this little black was brilliant, for even blackness has
white one, of equal developments, though of dissimilar color, driven in one
white-horse, so called, which is obtained from the tapering part of the fish,
whole mile of shoreless ocean was between Pip and Stubb.  Out from the centre
wild, Hindoo odor about it, such as may lurk in the vicinity of funereal
windlass; under a blue tranquil sky; the ship under indolent sail, and
wise, and therefore jolly; --not that man is fitted to sit down on
with bowed shoulders, staggers off with it as if he were a grenadier carrying
with savages, and laden with fire, and burning a corpse, and plunging into
with soapstone and sand, till they shine within like silver punch-bowls.
with that pleasant, genial, jolly brightness peculiar to his tribe; a tribe,
wondrously thin, ruptured membranes of the case, coalescing.  Gurry, so
words of mirth; as their uncivilized laughter forked upwards out of them,
yet man is a money-making animal, which propensity too often interferes with
you would, Pip, in Alabama.  Bear that in mind, and don't jump any more.
your true motto in whaling; but cases will sometimes happen when Leap
