

















     Accursed fate!
     And so saying, he placed himself half way within the scuttle, and slouching
     At day-break, the three
     D'ye see him?  cried Ahab; but the whale was not yet in sight.  In his
     I knew it --ye can't escape --blow on and split your spout, O whale!  the mad
     I'll solve it, though!  When dusk descended, the whale was still in sight
     Omen?  omen? --the dictionary!  If the gods think to speak outright to man,
     Sir?  My body, man, not thee.  Give me something for a cane -- there, that
     The Parsee!  cried Stubb -- he must have been caught in-- The black vomit
     The harpoon, said Ahab, half way rising, and draggingly leaning on one
     but this swift motion of the deck creeps up one's legs and tingles at the
     craft the carpenter made him another leg; while still as on the
     eyes Fedallah gazed, and crossed his arms; but the tiger-yellow crew were
     like a tossed bubble which the least chance shock might burst.  From the
     there, --d'ye see it? --the forged iron, men, the white whale's -- no, no, no,
     thing --a nobler thing that that.  Would now the wind but had a body; but
     treble-banked his every fin; swimming with a velocity which plainly showed,
(pitchpoling) from its being likened to that preliminary up-and-down poise
--blistered fool; this hand did dart it! --'tis in the fish! --Aloft there!
--corkscrewed in the mazes of the line, loose harpoons and lances, with all
--gone?  What means that little word? --What death-knell rings in it, that old
--not gone!  But quickly they returned to him with the tidings that the Parsee
.. < chapter cxxxiv 16  THE CHASE--SECOND DAY >
.. <p 541 >
.. <p 542 >
.. <p 542n. >
.. <p 543 >
.. <p 544 >
.. <p 545 >
.. <p 546 >
.. <p 546 >
.. <p 547 >
.. <p 548 >
.. <p 549 >
.. <p 550 >
.. <p 551 >
.. <p 552 >
.. <p 553 >
.. <p 554 >
.. <p 555 >
.. <p 555 >
.. <p 556 >
Ahab shakes as if he were the belfry.  The harpoon, too! --toss over the litter
Ahab's hawser tows his purpose yet.  Believe ye, men, in the things called
Ahab's head, and reached higher than that.  In this attitude the White Whale
Ahab, less dartingly, but still rapidly was dropped from his perch.  Lower
And yesterday I talked the same to Starbuck there, concerning my broken
But ere I break, ye'll hear me crack; and till ye hear that, know that
Captain's mind, he advanced, and eyeing the wreck exclaimed -- The thistle
D'ye see him?  Sing out for every spout, though he spout ten times a second!
Dick moved on, still withholding from sight the full terrors of his submerged
I'll slay him yet!  Great God!  but for one single instant show thyself,
Leviathan of the modern railway is so familiarly known in its every pace,
Maccabees.  Meanwhile Ahab half smothered in the foam of the whale's insolent
Meantime, from the beginning all this had been descried from the ship's mast
Rising with his utmost velocity from the furthest depths, the Sperm Whale
Starbuck drawing near, 'tis a solemn sight; an omen, and an ill one.
Starbuck is Stubb reversed, and Stubb is Starbuck; and ye two are all
Stubb did but speak out for well nigh all that crew.  The frenzies of the
Stubb, showing it.  Lay it before me; --any missing men?  One, two, three,
THE CHASE--THIRD DAY The morning of the third day dawned fair and fresh, and
Tashtego.  In long Indian file, as when herons take wing, the white birds
The bluish pearl-white of the inside of the jaw was within six inches of
The day was nearly done; only the hem of his golden robe was rustling.  Soon,
Then as the men went forward, he muttered on: -- The things called omens!
They were one man, not thirty.  For as the one ship that held them all;
Thinking is, or ought to be, a coolness and a calmness; and our poor hearts
This motion is peculiar to the sperm whale.  It receives its designation
This whole act's immutably decreed. 'Twas rehearsed by thee and me a billion
Unmindful of the tedious rope-ladders of the shrouds, the men, like shooting
Whatever pale fears and forebodings some of them might have felt before;
a boat, picked up the floating mariners, tubs, oars and whatever else could
a certain limit, such a course excludes the coming onset from the whale's
a glass in which the contents turned to ice, and shiver it.  And still this
a new-made world, and made for a summer-house to the angels, and this
a sudden rush among the remaining tangles of the other lines; by so doing,
according to the observed humor of his speed; and say to themselves, so many
across, so over the old man's face there now stole some such added gloom as
acuteness at all successful in the end, the wind and the sea must be the
adrift, the three boats now stilly floated, awaiting Moby Dick's
advancing shower in a vale.  Aye, breach your last to the sun, Moby Dick!
afternoon previous.  Mr. Starbuck, the ship is thine --keep away from the
again --hoping that way to disencumber it of some snarls --when lo! --a sight
again, but at some further point; like as this pilot stands by his compass,
against its bottom, and sent it, turning over and over, into the air; till
all eyes were fastened upon him; as instead of standing by himself he still
all the things that most exasperate and outrage mortal man, all these things
all this, he seized the long bone with his naked hands, and wildly strove to
allowing a little space for the light to spread.  see nothing, sir.  Turn
almost inside of him, as it were; and while the other boats involuntarily
among the Nantucket commanders; that from the simple observation of a whale
and he gazed beyond the whale's place, towards the dim blue spaces and wide
and now comes blowing hither as innocent as
and striving to hold fast to the oars to lash them across.  At that preluding
and takes the precise bearing of the cape at present visible, in order the
and then pacing the deck, binnacle-watch in hand, so soon as the last second
and then, diving down into the sea, disappeared in a boiling maelstrom, in
and tilting over sideways as it slipped, the boat had shaken off his hold on
and was now coming for the three crews.  Ahab's boat was central; and
and when he would be reported as just gone down, Ahab would take the time,
another boat, help to work that second boat; and the chase is thus continued
appalling battle on every side; and heedless of the irons darted at him from
apparition.  Then, calling upon Fedallah to change places with him, went
are occasions when these Nantucketers time that other Leviathan of the deep,
as if to rally for a more tremendous charge.  Seizing that opportunity, Ahab
as in an already over-clouded sky fresh troops of clouds will sometimes sail
as well as his probable rate of progression during that period.  And, in these
aspect, and so planetarily swift the ever-contracting circles he made, that
assault.  The sight of the splintered boat seemed to madden him, as the blood
at it, and you but run through it.  Ha!  a coward wind that strikes stark
away, he cried, so soon as he had reached his boat --a spare one, rigged the
baby's pulse; and lightly say of it, the up train or the down train will
be caught at, and safely landed them on her decks.  Some sprained shoulders,
be towed by him to the infernal world?  Oh, oh, -- Impiety and blasphemy to
being chased, and diligently marked, through several hours of daylight,
bended arm -- is it safe?  Aye, sir, for it was not darted; this is it, said
beneath the boat, he could not be darted at from the bows, for the bows were
bit of plank, the least chip or crumb of the boats touched his skin, his tail
blows! --right ahead!  was now the mast-head cry.  Aye, aye!  cried Stubb.
blue of the sea.  The glittering mouth yawned beneath
boat's broken half, which afforded a comparatively easy float; nor did it so
boat's fragmentary
boat.  Oh!  how valiantly I seek to drive out of others' hearts what's
boat.  Only one thing could be done.  Seizing the boat-knife, he critically
boats, but keep near them.  Lower, all!  As if to strike a quick terror into
bobbed up and down like an empty vial, twitching his legs upwards to escape
body; so that when his vast wrinkled forehead rose --some twenty or more feet
both elastic gunwales were springing in and out, as the whale dallied with
bows full within his mouth, so that the long, narrow, scrolled lower jaw
bravadoes the White Whale tossed himself salmon-like to Heaven.  So suddenly
brave?  As fearless fire, cried Stubb.  And as mechanical, muttered Ahab.
breaches!  there she breaches!  was the cry, as in his immeasureable
broken ends drooping, the crew at the stern-wreck clinging to the gunwales,
burst into view!  For not by any calm and indolent spoutings; not by the
but one man at the fore.  The boats! --stand by!
but they were broken up, and on all sides routed, as timid prairie hares
cases, somewhat as a pilot, when about losing sight of a coast, whose
central keel; even so, all the individualities of the crew, this man's
chase had by this time worked them bubblingly up, like old wine worked anew.
cheering his men, he told them he would take the whale head-and-head, --that
churning himself into furious speed, almost in an instant as it were,
clinched so fast in mine! --The Parsee --the Parsee! -- gone, gone?  and he
collateral subtile matters touching the chase of whales.  The ship tore on;
commanded them to lift him to his perch.  In this way the day wore on; Ahab,
concern.  Aye!  and all splintered to pieces, Stubb! --d'ye see it. -- But
concrete hull, which shot on its way, both balanced and directed by the long
conquered it?  In every fight it has the last and bitterest blow.  Run tilting
crest, he shouted, -- Sail on the whale! --Drive him off!  The Pequod's
cried Ahab, thy hour and thy harpoon are at hand! --Down!  down all of ye,
cried Starbuck; never, never wilt thou capture him, old man --In Jesus' name
curled high up into the open air, and one of the teeth caught in a row-lock.
dam off your blood, as a miller shuts his water-gate upon the stream!  And
darkness is almost as established to the sagacious mind of the hunter, as the
dazzlingly broke against it; vindictively tossing their shivered spray still
described.  By this motion the whale must best and most comprehensively view
descried the whole fight, again came bearing down to the rescue, and dropping
desolate sounds from out ravines.  But this intensity of his physical
destruction he had made; and with his back to it, he now lay for a moment
direction in which he will continue to swim for a time, while out of sight,
disappears.  It was even so; in their headlong eagerness, the men had
down in the billows; and at the same time slowly revolving his whole spindled
earthy clefts of Greenland ice or in Vesuvius lava.  How the wild winds blow
entangled the slack of the three lines now fast to him, that they
even in the heart of such a whirlpool as that; helpless Ahab's head was seen,
even with a broken bone, old Ahab is untouched; and I account no living bone
every boat, seemed only intent on annihilating each separate plank of which
evil shadow gone --all good angels mobbing thee with warnings: --what more
evince his own unabated fortitude, and thus keep up a valiant place in his
evolutions, the White Whale so crossed and recrossed, and in a thousand ways
exhaust him as the previous day's mishap.  But when he was helped to the deck,
expectant cries.  Their vision was keener than man's; Ahab could discover no
experience, and invincible confidence acquired by some great natural geniuses
eyes.  But in this matter of the whale, be the front of thy face to me as the
face the whale's head while yet under water.  But as if perceiving this
fading away from its first sparkling intensity, to the dim mistiness of an
far out on the rocking yards; all the spars in full bearing of mortals,
ferrule has not stood, sir, said the carpenter, now coming up; I put good
fiend himself is after ye!  blow your trump --blister your lungs! --Ahab will
first paid out more line: and then was rapidly hauling and jerking in upon it
flat-faced upon the sea.  Ripplingly withdrawing from his prey, Moby Dick now
fleeces.  Out upon it! --it's tainted.  Were I the wind, I'd blow no more on
flew to the rescue.  Dragged into Stubb's boat with blood-shot, blinded eyes,
flukes; dashed them together like two rolling husks on a surf-beaten beach,
fluttering over the water there, wheeling round and round, with joyous,
foot of herds of elephants.  Far inland, nameless wails came from him, as
for the earliest sun.
fore part of him slowly rose from the water; for an instant his whole
forehead through the
foreshortened, and, of themselves, warped the devoted boats towards the
forward to the bows, and seizing Perth's harpoon, commanded his crew to
four, five; --there were five oars, sir, and here are five men.  That's
fresh weapons for the morrow.  Meantime, of the broken keel of Ahab's wrecked
from him; the frail gunwales bent in, collapsed, and snapped, as both jaws,
general trending he well knows, and which he desires shortly to return to
glittered and glared like a glacier; and stood there gradually fading and
gods nor men his neighbors!  Cold, cold --I shiver! --How now?  Aloft there!
going to leeward still; what a leaping spout!  Hands off from me!  The eternal
good. --Help me, man; I wish to stand.  So, so, I see him!  there!  there!
grasp their oars and stand by to stern.  Now, by reason of this timely
great hearts sometimes condense to one deep pang, the sum total of those
hair is growing now; this moment growing, and heat must breed it; but no,
half-hung upon the shoulder of Starbuck, who had thus far been the foremost
halloo of thirty buckskin lungs was heard, as --much nearer to the ship than
hand to the fore-mast head, and see it manned till morning. --Then advancing
have been deceived; not moby dick casts one odd jet that way, and then
he left.  With oars apeak, and paddles down, the sheets of their sails
he seemed horizontally swooping upon them.  And though the other boats,
he'll rise once more, --but only to spout his last!  D'ye feel brave men,
heads; and squaring her yards, she had borne down upon the scene; and was
heart.  This
hearts, though summary in each one suffering; still, if the gods decree it,
heaven it cannot be! --missing? -- quick!  call them all.  The old man's hinted
heliotrope glance anticipatingly gone backward on its dial; sat due eastward
higher into the air.  So, in a gale, the but half-baffled Channel billows only
himself, sounded, and went out of sight.  Hoveringly halting, and dipping on
his back, in the manner of a biting shark, slowly and feelingly taking its
his hat, stood there till dawn, except when at intervals rousing himself to
his steering oar, Ahab whirled the craft aside from this tremendous
hoist a sail still higher, or to spread one to a still greater breadth --thus
hold for the time; at that moment his hand had made one final effort to push
hope to escape.  With straining eyes, then, they remained on the outer edge
hours hence this whale will have gone two hundred miles, will have about
hunt him more!  Starbuck, of late I've felt strangely moved to thee; ever
in the complete and careful rigging of the spare boats and sharpening their
in their life-time aggregate a whole age of woe, wholly made up of
inaccessible being.  Can any lead touch yonder floor, any mast scrape yonder
indefinitely prolonged, if not a hopeless one; nor could any crew endure for
inextricable intricacies of rope; shattered oars and planks; all these were
infallible wake, though; but follow that wake, that's all.  Helm there;
infinite blueness to seek out the thing that might destroy them!  Why sing ye
instantaneous intensities; for even in their pointless centres, those noble
intent, by the crafty upraising of his head, a movement that loosed his
into oneness, and were all directed to that fatal goal which Ahab their one
into the sea; and was all fast again.  That instant, the White Whale made
irresistibly dragged the more involved boats of Stubb and Flask towards his
is often the case that when a boat is stove, its crew, being picked up by
is that man's; and if on that day I shall again raise him, then, ten times
is, pull straight up to his forehead, --a not uncommon thing; for when within
it fell again --gunwale downwards --and Ahab and his men struggled out from
it was almost dark, but the look-out men still remained unset.  Can't see
it's like that sort of common grass that will grow anywhere, between the
it; but I shall let it abide here till the White Whale is dead; and then,
it; they whip it about me as the torn shreds of split sails lash the tossed
its sum shall be divided among all of ye!  Away now! --the deck is thine, sir.
jeopardized castaways, Ahab and all; nor in that case could they themselves
keep her full before the wind! --Aloft!  come down! --Mr. Stubb, send a fresh
keep him nailed --quick! --all hands to the rigging of the boats --collect the
lance; propped up on a lonely foot. 'Tis Ahab --his body's part; but Ahab's
last seen?  As before, sir, --straight to leeward.  Good!  he will travel
launched him along it, to a little distance from the centre of the
lay at a little distance, vertically thrusting his oblong white head up and
leaner who he will; and would old Ahab had leaned oftener than he has.  The
leaving such a furrow in the sea as when a cannon-ball, missent, becomes a
leeward wake of Moby Dick.  At the well known, methodic intervals, the
like an enormous shears, sliding further aft, bit the craft completely in
like the double-jointed wings of an albatross; the Pequod bore down in the
line-tubs, oars, and other floating furniture, while aslope little Flask
lord and keel did point to.  The rigging lived.  The mast-heads, like the tops
mane; in some cases, this breaching is his act of defiance.  There she
mankind; and Ahab stands alone among the millions of the peopled earth, nor
marbleized body formed a high arch, like Virginia's Natural Bridge, and
margin of the sky, the spray that he raised, for the moment, intolerably
mariner is the skill that assures him he is exactly ninety-three leagues and a
mast-heads were punctually manned afresh.  D'ye see him?  cried Ahab, after
matter --'tis but resting for the rush.  Here be it said, that this
me, men.  Ye see an old man cut down to the stump; leaning on a shivered
me, spine-wise, on the sea, --for by live-oaks!  my spine's a keel.  Ha, ha!
minutes since the first cry, no more had been heard.  Sway me up, men; ye
mistaken some other thing for the whale-spout, as the event itself soon
moment a breaking sea dashed on him from Moby Dick, and whelmed him for the
moment, ere the boat was yet snapped, Ahab, the first to perceive the whale's
monomaniac Ahab, furious with this tantalizing vicinity of his foe, which
more certainly to hit aright the remote, unseen headland, eventually to be
more savage than the embattled teeth of sharks!  Caught and twisted
more.  In those moments, the torn, enraged waves he shakes off, seem his
morning the first of its throwing open to them, a fairer day could not dawn
morning; he's making a passage now, and may heave-to a while.  Helm there!
mortal man!  to think's audacity.  God only has that right and privilege.
mountain of dazzling foam, shows his place to the distance of seven miles and
mouth and scrolled jaw; his vast, shadowed bulk still half blending with the
naked men, but will not stand to receive a single blow.  Even Ahab is a braver
natures contain the entire circumferences of inferior souls.
nearly as on the previous night; only, the sound of hammers, and the hum of
never thinks; he only feels, feels, feels; that's tingling enough for
night before, slouched Ahab stood fixed within his scuttle; his hid,
night, and through night into day, is a thing by no means unprecedented in
no more of this, that's worse than devil's madness.  Two days chased; twice
nor man, nor fiend, can so much as graze old Ahab in his own proper and
not out for him, if ye see him?  cried Ahab, when, after the lapse of some
now aloft and motionless; anon, unrestingly pacing the planks.  As he was thus
now freshened; the sea began to swell.  The birds! --the birds!  cried
now shook the slight cedar as a mildly cruel cat her mouse.  With unastonished
now so nigh, that Ahab in the water hailed her; -- Sail on the --but that
now?  D'ye see him?  and if the reply was, No, sir!  straightway he
oars --harpooneers!  the irons, the irons! -- hoist the royals higher --a pull
ocean, and trailing after him the intertangled lines, continued his leeward
of grapes and mulberries cast before Antiochus's elephants in the book of
of mine one jot more me, than this dead one that's lost.  Nor white whale,
of overtaking the chase.  Accordingly, the boats now made for her, and were
of tall palms, were outspreadingly tufted with arms and legs.  Clinging to a
of the allotted hour expired, his voice was heard. -- Whose is the doubloon
of the boat did not equal the added power of the whale, for he seemed to have
of the daylight look-outs, who dotted every mast and almost every spar.
of the direful zone, whose centre had now become the old man's head.
of the whale-lance, in the exercise called pitchpoling, previously
of the whole line of judges: --like a hawk's beak it pecks my brain.  I'll,
omens?  Then laugh aloud, and cry encore!  For ere they drown, drowning things
on all the sheets! --helm there!  steady, steady for your life!  I'll ten
once more the solitary night-man at the fore-mast-head was relieved by crowds
other drifting end, could not succor him; more than enough was it for them
others, shading their eyes from the vivid sunlight, sat
out of the water --the now rising swells, with all their confluent waves,
palm of this hand --a lipless, unfeatured blank.  Ahab is for ever Ahab, man.
parted the white whale from his victim.  As he sullenly swam off, the boats
past night's suspense; the fixed, unfearing, blind, reckless way in which
paused, as before a quick crisis impossible to withstand, then it was that
peaceable gush of that mystic fountain in his head, did the White Whale now
perpendicularly from the sea, the White Whale dashed his broad forehead
pertinacious pursuit of one particular whale, continued through day into
pile on the sail again, ship keepers!  down the rest of the spare boats and
pilot's coast is to him.  So that to this hunter's wondrous skill, the
placed him all alive and helpless in the very jaws he hated; frenzied with
plank and each rib, it thrilled for an instant, the whale obliquely lying on
planted irons in him; though now for a moment the whale drew aside a little,
pleated head lengthwise beneath the boat.  Through and through; through every
plough-share and turns up the level field.  By salt and hemp!  cried Stubb,
points, came flashing and dripping up to the chocks in the bows of Ahab's
poltroon.  Groan nor laugh should be heard before a wreck.  Aye, sir, said
previously secured by her --and then hoisting everything to her side, and
prison corridors and cells, and wards of hospitals, and ventilated them,
profoundly saw a white living spot no bigger than a white weasel, with
prostration did but so much the more abbreviate it.  In an instant's compass,
proved; for hardly had Ahab reached his perch; hardly was the rope belayed
proverbial evanescence of a thing writ in water, a wake, is to all desired
prows were pointed; and breaking up the charmed circle, she effectually
pulling into the creamy pool to rescue whom he could; --in that wild
purposes well nigh as reliable as the steadfast land.  And as the mighty iron
quarter from his port?  Inferable from these statements, are many
reach such or such a spot, at such or such an hour; even so, almost, there
reached this or that degree of latitude or longitude.  But to render this
reached within --through --and then, without --the rays of steel; dragged in
ready and ripe for their fate.  Ah!  how they still strove through that
reappearance.  An hour, said Ahab, standing rooted in his boat's stern;
recoil from the base of the Eddystone, triumphantly to overleap its summit
reveal his vicinity; but by the far more wondrous phenomenon of breaching.
reversed; broken bow to shattered stern.  At last he paused before it; and
rig them --Mr. Starbuck away, and muster the boat's crews.  Let me first help
roof? -- Aloft there!  which way?  Dead to leeward, sir.  Up helm, then;
round, like the grated nutmeg in a swiftly stirred bowl of punch.  While the
rushing among the boats with open jaws, and a lashing tail, offered
sails, and rushed the vessel on by arms invisible as irresistible; this
sap runs up in Ahab's bones again!  Set the sail; out oars; the helm!  It
satisfied that his work for that time was done, he pushed his pleated
see how the night wore on.
seemed drawn up towards Heaven by invisible wires, --as, arrow-like, shooting
seemed the symbol of that unseen agency which so enslaved them to the race.
seemed whirling round in his head as he swept the watery circle.  The breeze
seen in the blue plain of the sea, and relieved against the still bluer
shallow pains kindly diffused through feebler men's whole lives.  And so, such
sharp splinter.  Aye, aye, Starbuck, 'tis sweet to lean sometimes, be the
ship and I are two brave fellows! --Ha!  ha!  Some one take me up, and launch
ship they cling to.  A vile wind that has no doubt blown ere this through
shivered lance will do.  Muster the men.  Surely I have not seen him yet.  By
sidelingly transplanted himself, as it were, in an instant, shooting his
sidelong vision.  But ere that close limit was gained, and while yet all
sign in the sea.  But suddenly as he peered down and down into its depths, he
simultaneousness of a thousand concreted perils, --Ahab's yet unstricken boat
since that hour we both saw --thou know'st what, in one another's
slower now 'tis night.  Down royals and
slowly feeling with his flukes from side to side; and whenever a stray oar,
so long a period, such an unintermitted, intense straining at the oar; a
soon swayed up to their cranes --the two parts of the wrecked boat having been
soul's a centipede, that moves upon a hundred legs.  I feel strained, half
soulless thing is this that laughs before a wreck?  Man, man!  did I not know
spar with one hand, some reached forth the other with impatient wavings;
spinning round the boat upon its axis, its bow, by anticipation, was made to
stacking her canvas high up, and sideways outstretching it with stun-sails,
stars, slid to the deck, by the isolated back-stays and halyards; while
steady, as thou goest, and hast been going.  What a lovely day again; were it
stern, Fedallah incuriously and mildly eyed him; the clinging crew, at the
stove to splinters; thy very leg once more snatched from under thee; thy
stranded, as ropes that tow dismasted frigates in a gale; and I may look so.
strategem, moby dick, with that malicious intelligence ascribed to him,
strength did crack, and helplessly he yielded to his body's doom: for a
strike, lest that should be the signal for the instant destruction of the
such a wicked, miserable world.  I'd crawl somewhere to a cave, and slink
sundering the rope near the chocks --dropped the intercepted fagot of steel
swiftly drew back, and came sideways smiting the sea.  But soon, as if
swiftly round and round the wrecked crew; sideways churning the water in his
tail, and too much of a cripple to swim, --though he could still keep afloat,
teeth, floating up from the undiscoverable bottom.  It was Moby Dick's open
that if now, under these circumstances, pushed on, the chase would prove an
that scatter before the bounding bison.  The hand of Fate had snatched all
that the unconquerable captain in the soul should have such a craven mate!
that, with watches in their hands, men time his rate as doctors that of a
that? --There's a riddle now might baffle all the lawyers backed by the ghosts
the South sea fishery.  For such is the wonderful skill, prescience of
the air vibrate as with the combined discharges of rifles.  The triumphant
the ass refused; it pricked his mouth too keenly, sir; ha!  ha!  What
the boat like an open-doored marble tomb; and giving one side-long sweep with
the boat out of the bite.  But only slipping further into the whale's mouth,
the doomed craft in this devilish way; and from his body being submerged
the dreaded jaws of sharks; and Stubb was lustily singing out for some one
the grindstone was heard till nearly daylight, as the men toiled by lanterns
the jaw; spilled him out of it, as he leaned to the push; and so he fell
the last man?  Shall we be dragged by him to the bottom of the sea?  Shall we
the line beyond, passed it, inboard, to the bowsman, and then, twice
the place of the imaginary jet, less than a mile ahead --Moby Dick bodily
the sea, midway between the two floating wrecks.  These floated aside, the
the spout now, sir; --too dark --cried a voice from the air.  How heading when
the white brine caking in his wrinkles; the long tension of Ahab's bodily
the wing, the white sea-fowls longingly lingered over the agitated pool that
thee brave as fearless fire (and as mechanical) I could swear thou wert a
thee towards the bulwarks, sir.  Oh, oh, oh!  how this splinter gores me now!
their bristling barbs and
their hearts were bowled along.  The wind that made great bellies of their
their souls; and by the stirring perils of the previous day; the rack of the
their wild craft went plunging towards its flying mark; by all these things,
them, by this time being the first assailant himself, Moby Dick had turned,
then there were plainly revealed two long crooked rows of white, glistening
then, as it sometimes happens, offered the most promising intermediate means
then, when night obscures the fish, the creature's future wake through the
there.  And yet, 'tis a noble and heroic thing, the wind!  who ever
there; but no fatal or even serious ill seemed to have befallen any one.  As
these were not only now kept out of sight through the growing awe of Ahab,
they will honorably speak outright; not shake their heads, and give an old
thing barely tolerable only in some one brief vicissitude.  The ship itself,
this.  Stubb saw him pause; and perhaps intending, not vainly, though, to
those boats were made.  But skilfully manoeuvred, incessantly wheeling like
though it was put together of all contrasting things --oak, and maple, and pine
thought my brain was very calm --frozen calm, this old skull cracks so, like
thought was true.  Upon mustering the company, the Parsee was not there.
three boats were plain as the ship's three masts to his eye; the White Whale
throb, and our poor brains beat too much for that.  And yet, I've sometimes
thus booms his entire bulk into the pure element of air, and piling up a
time, lying all crushed in the bottom of Stubb's boat, like one trodden under
time.  But struggling out of it again, and chancing to rise on a towering
times girdle the unmeasured globe; yea and dive straight through it, but
times, but by a plank's breadth; while all the time, Ahab's unearthly slogan
to and fro pacing, beneath his slouched hat, at every turn he passed his own
to assist him.  His ivory leg had been snapped off, leaving but one short
to its pin on deck, when he struck the key-note to an orchestra, that made
to ladle him up; and while the old man's line --now parting -- admitted of his
to leeward.  So once more the sail was shortened, and everything passed
to look to themselves.  For so revolvingly appalling was the White Whale's
top-gallant sails! --aye, they should have been kept on her all night.  But no
top-gallant stun-sails, Mr. Starbuck.  We must not run over him before
tore every other cry but his to shreds.  But at last in his untraceable
towards the doubloon in the main-mast -- Men, this gold is mine, for I earned
trained chargers in the field; the boats for a while eluded him; though, at
trunk, entirely hiding the wrenched hideousness of his jaw.  But soon the
tumbling over each other's heads to gain the uttermost stern.  And now, while
twain, and locked themselves fast again in
two crews were yet circling in the waters, reaching out after the revolving
under certain given circumstances, pretty accurately foretell both the
under it, like seals from a seaside cave.  The first uprising momentum of the
under orders.  Look thou, underling!  that thou obeyest mine. --Stand round
unharmed, still hovered hard by; still they dared not pull into the eddy to
up all hands and make sail!  he travels faster than I thought for; --the
upon that world.  Here's food for thought, had Ahab time to think; but Ahab
valor, that man's fear; guilt and guiltiness, all varieties were welded
vengeful wake, as if lashing himself up to still another and more deadly
visited: so does the fisherman, at his compass, with the whale; for after
walking, uttering no sound, except to hail the men aloft, or to bid them
warningly waving his bannered flukes in the air, the grand god revealed
was nowhere to be found.  Aye, sir, said Stubb -- caught among the tangles of
was to go before: --but still was to be seen again ere I could perish --How's
way at a traveller's methodic pace.  As before, the attentive ship having
we go the gait that leaves no dust behind!  There she blows --she blows! --she
were now all flying towards Ahab's boat; and when within a few yards began
whale --modifying its direction as he struck the surface --involuntarily
whale's glittering spout was regularly announced from the manned mast-heads;
whaleman's allies; for of what present avail to the becalmed or windbound
whatever objects may be encircling him.
when last descried, they will,
which, for a space, the odorous cedar chips of the wrecks danced round and
whosoever of ye first raises him, upon the day he shall be killed, this gold
will twice rise to the surface; then rise again, to sink for evermore.  So
with Fedallah the day before, so Ahab was now found grimly clinging to his
with Moby Dick --two days he's floated --to-morrow will be the third.  Aye, men,
with their scud.  But soon resuming his horizontal attitude, Moby Dick swam
with what is called double-banked oars.  It was thus now.  But the added power
wives' darkling hint. --Begone!  Ye two are the opposite poles of one thing;
wonderful celerity uprising, and magnifying as it rose, till it turned, and
wood; iron, and pitch, and hemp --yet all these ran into each other in the one
wooing vacancies to leeward.  It was only an instant; for again his eyes
work into that leg.  But no bones broken, sir, I hope, said Stubb with true
wouldst thou have? --Shall we keep chasing this murderous fish till he swamps
wrecked boat, which had been dropped upon the quarter-deck, and lay there
wrench it from its gripe.  As now he thus vainly strove, the jaw slipped
wrench thee! --run all of ye above, alow, cabin, forecastle --find him --not gone
wrists, and ankles; livid contusions; wrenched harpoons and lances;
years before this ocean rolled.  Fool!  I am the Fates' lieutenant; I act
your line --I thought I saw him dragging under.  My line!  my line?  Gone?
