


















    
     Am I the same man that helped kill this whale?  Doesn't the devil live for
     Captain Mayhew, stand by now to receive it; and taking the fatal missive
     Captain, I have just bethought me of my letter-bag; there is a letter for
     Hand in hand, ship and breeze
     Here, now, are
     It should not have been omitted that
     Meantime, the hoisted sperm whale's head jogged about very violently, and
     Stubb here alluded to a strange story told of the Jeroboam, and a certain
     That lively cry upon this deadly calm might almost convert a better man.
     and making a long arc in his descent, fell into the sea at the distance of
     as the strained line, scraping beneath the ship, suddenly rose to view under
     get him to swap away his silver watch, or his soul, or something of that
     grey-headed whale.  Let us now note what is least dissimilar in these heads
     never saw such a book; heard of it, though.  But now, tell me, Stubb, do you
     that of the fatal accidents in the Sperm-Whale Fishery, this kind is perhaps
     the Pequod had gradually drifted into a sea, which, by its occasional
     the Right Whale are by far the most noteworthy.  They are the only whales
     thou must either-- But that instant a headlong wave shot the boat far
-- Think, think of the blasphemer --dead, and down there! --beware of the
-- namely, the two most important organs, the eye and the ear.
--Where away?  Three points on the starboard bow, sir, and bringing down her
--the man's wife, I'll wager) -- Aye --Mr. Harry Macey, Ship Jeroboam; --why
.. < chapter lxx 14  THE SPHYNX >
.. < chapter lxxi 2  THE JEROBOAM'S STORY >
.. < chapter lxxiii 23  STUBB AND FLASK KILL A RIGHT WHALE; AND THEN HAVE >
.. < chapter lxxiv 7  THE SPERM WHALE'S HEAD--CONTRASTED VIEW >
.. <p 308 >
.. <p 308 >
.. <p 309 >
.. <p 310 >
.. <p 311 >
.. <p 312 >
.. <p 313 >
.. <p 314 >
.. <p 315 >
.. <p 316 >
.. <p 317 >
.. <p 317 >
.. <p 322 >
.. <p 323 >
.. <p 324 >
.. <p 325 >
.. <p 326 >
.. <p 327 >
.. <p 327 >
.. <p 328 >
.. <p 329 >
A TALK OVER HIM It must be borne in mind that all this time we have a Sperm
According to this account and what was subsequently learned, it seemed that
Ahab; thou art soon going that way.  Curses throttle thee!  yelled Ahab.
An interval passed and the boats were in plain sight, in the act of being
Beware of the horrible plague!  Gabriel, Gabriel!  cried Captain Mayhew;
Both are massive enough in all conscience; but there is a certain mathematical
But I sometimes think he'll charm the ship to no good at last.  I don't half
But nothing like this, in the present case, had been done.  The carcases of
But with the whale, these two sashes are separately inserted, making two
Death himself might well have been the post-boy.  Can'st not read it?  cried
Far back on the side of the head, and low down, near the angle of either
Fedallah wants to kidnap Captain Ahab?  Do I suppose it?  You'll know it
Fedallah's age.  Nor all the coopers in creation couldn't show hoops enough to
Flask with lance for lance; and thus round and round the Pequod the battle
Flask's saying proved true.  As before, the Pequod steeply leaned over towards
Gabriel
Gabriel started to his feet.  Think, think of the fevers, yellow and bilious!
Gabriel was seen eyeing it with rather more apprehensiveness than his
Greedily sucking in this intelligence, Gabriel solemnly warned the captain
He was therefore forced to relinquish his plan.  Nor would they permit Gabriel
I remember some such story as you were telling, said Flask, when at last the
Jeroboam had a malignant epidemic on board, and that Mayhew, her captain,
Mayhew began a dark story concerning Moby Dick; not, however, without
Moreover, while in most other animals that I can now think of, the eyes are so
Nantucket, where, with that cunning peculiar to craziness, he assumed a
Now, the beheading of the Sperm Whale is a scientific anatomical feat, upon
Pequod.  I fear not thy epidemic, man, said Ahab from the bulwarks
Shaker God incarnated; the Shakers receiving the Bible.  But when, some year
So soon as this figure had been first descried, Stubb had exclaimed -- That's
Stubb's and Flask's, were detached in pursuit.  Pulling further and further
Stubb, not without some disgust at the thought of having to do with so
There's your law of precedents; there's your utility of traditions; there's
Thus, some minds for ever keep trimming boat.  Oh, ye foolish!  throw all
Whale's body, rushed to the fresh blood that was spilled, thirstily drinking
Whale's head hoisted on her starboard side, and at the same time a Right
Whale's on the larboard; did you never hear, Stubb, that that ship can never
Whale's prodigious head hanging to the Pequod's side.  But we must let it
a broad white shadow rose from the sea; by its quick, fanning motion,
a god.  Such things may seem incredible; but, however wondrous, they are
a mule carrying a pair of overburdening panniers.  Meantime, Fedallah was
a peculiar motion of both hands -- Aye, will I!  Flask, I take that Fedallah to
about fifty yards.  Not a chip of the boat was harmed, nor a hair of any
accompanies the body.  But strangest of all is the circumstance, that in more
accomplished it was noon, and the seamen went below to their dinner.  Silence
adhering to the timid quarantine of the land, he peremptorily refused to come
adjacent, interdicted parts, and exactly divide the spine at a critical
advance they sought to gain.  And they stuck to it till they did gain it;
after that White Whale, and the devil there is trying to come round him, and
afterwards capsize?  Why not?  I don't know, but I heard that gamboge
again.  Subject to this, and other the like interruptions now and then, a
against attacking the white whale, in case the monster should be seen; in his
ahab.  give it me, man.  aye, aye it's but a dim scrawl; --what's this?  As
ahead, and its seethings drowned all speech.  Hast thou seen the White Whale?
ahead, no more than he can one exactly astern.  in a word, the position of
all the known varieties of the whale.  As the external difference between them
all the well known black bone attached to what is called the crown-piece.
all their might so as to get ahead of the ship.  For a few minutes the
almost as frequent as any.  Sometimes, nothing is injured but the man who is
alongside and beheaded, to the surprise of all, the announcement was made
always wanting oakum to stuff into the toes of his boots.  He sleeps in his
an atmosphere of sacredness.  Moreover, they were afraid of him.  As such a
an incorruptible sea and air rolling and flowing between; yet conscientiously
an ox whip when we get home; -- what else?  Now, do you mean what you say,
anchors rot; where in her murderous hold this frigate earth is ballasted with
and have been saying all along, stubb?  Mean or not mean, here we are at
and hooded head; and hanging there in the midst of so intense a calm, it
and large experience.  In short, he is what the fishermen technically call a
and put him in double-darbies, as he deserves, but lets him go about
and soon after news came from aloft that one or both the boats must be fast.
anywhere near.  And though all hands commonly disdained the capture of those
archangel nature seemed to warrant.  When this interlude was over, Captain
archangel's denunciations and forewarnings, Macey succeeded in persuading
are enabled to recognise each other upon the ocean, even at considerable
at every new gash, as the eager Israelites did at the new bursting fountains
attached, every captain is provided with it.  Thereby, the whale commanders
attempt weighing a Dutch barn in jewellers' scales The Pequod's whale being
away, they at last became almost invisible to the men at the mast-head.  But
backs, so to speak; but, at the same time, also, two fronts (side fronts):
be made.  Here be it said, that like the vessels of military marines, the
be the devil in disguise.  Do you believe that cock and bull story about his
before long, Flask.  But I am going now to keep a sharp look-out on him; and
behind it.  If your bitterest foe were walking straight towards you, with
being not unwilling to let him have the opportunity, despite all the
beyond also rose to sight, and once more the boats were free
blasphemer's end!  Ahab stolidly turned aside; then said to Mayhew,
blew on; but the breeze came faster than the ship, and soon the Pequod began
bloody-minded soldadoes?  Did ye read it there, Flask?  I guess ye did?  No;
bones of millions of the drowned; there, in that awful water-land, there was
boots, don't he?  He hasn't got any hammock; but I've seen him lay of nights
borne a righteous husband to outstretched, longing arms.  O head!  thou hast
both whales had dropped astern; and the head-laden ship not a little resembled
breeze to us!  Better and better, man.  Would now St.  Paul would come along
broke out in a freshet.  He announced himself as the archangel Gabriel, and
bulwarks, and no one by; look down there, Flask --pointing into the sea with
buoyed up by its native element.  And there with the strained craft steeply
but if ever I get a chance of a dark night, and he standing hard by the
but straightway upon the ship's getting out of sight of land, his insanity
by one of those occasional caprices of the seas were tumbling, not heaving it.
cable till the body is stripped.  That done, if it belong to a small whale it
calm, like a universal yellow lotus, was more and more unfolding its
calmly eyeing the right whale's head, and ever and anon glancing from the deep
can't remember where.  Three Spaniards?  Adventures of those three
captain, the stranger in question waved his hand from his boat's stern in
carved into a snake's head, Stubb?  Sink him!  I never look at him at all;
chance of encountering them in the four oceans.  Thus, most letters never
chance.  Now, if he's so old as all those hoops of yours come to, and if he
chanced to hit one of many marks in the wide margin allowed.  He became a
clutched it in an instant, seized the boat-knife, and impaling the letter on
coiled away in his pocket, I guess.  Blast him!  now that I think of it, he's
coils it down, do ye see, in the eye of the rigging.  What's the old man
come to the hull, that at first it seemed as if he meant it malice; but
commanded the captain to jump overboard.  He published his manifesto, whereby
communication.  Preserving an interval of some few yards between itself and
consequence of being kept in a dark locker of the cabin.  Of such a letter,
contending strain threatened to take them under.  But it was only a few feet
continue hanging there a while till we can get a chance to attend to it.  For
conversation was sustained between the two parties; but at intervals not
could not hope to reach her.  So the signal was set to see what response would
course, went round the stern of the ship towing the two boats after him, so
crew remained untainted, and though his ship was half a rifle-shot off, and
dagger uplifted in broad day, you would not be able to see him, any more
decapitated and the body stripped, the head was hoisted against the ship's
declared these things; --the dark, daring play of his sleepless, excited
deeper men than Doctor Johnson who believe in them.
deeper midnight of the insatiate maw; and his murderers still sailed on
delivery to the persons to whom they may be addressed, depends upon the mere
demanded Ahab, when the boat drifted back.  Think, think of thy whale-boat,
descended from heaven by the way of a trap-door, announcing the speedy
devil kidnapped, he'd roast for him?  There's a governor!  Do you suppose
devil?  Who's afraid of him, except the old governor who daresn't catch him
devilish easy and gentlemanlike, and inquiring if the old governor was at
dignity.  In the present instance, too, this dignity is heightened by the
disciples among the crew, that at last in a body they went to the captain and
disciples believed that he had specifically fore-announced it, instead of
disposing of the body of a right whale, when brought alongside the ship, the
distances, and with no small facility.  The Pequod's signal was at last
distinct windows, but sadly impairing the view.  This peculiarity of the
divinity.  Now, while Macey, the mate, was standing up in his boat's bow, and
dragged right towards the ship by the towing whale.  So close did the monster
duck you, though -- yes, and drown you --what then?  I should like to see him
each other, when heaven seemed false to them.  Thou saw'st the murdered mate
earth, and now not even hovering in the air!  There's orthodoxy!  Thus, while
effectually divided as they are by many cubic feet of solid head, which
erecting himself, while whole thunder-clouds swept aside from his brow.
even by the immense tackles of a whaler, this were as vain a thing as to
event clothed the archangel with added influence; because his credulous
ever-contracting gash thus made, he must skilfully steer clear of all
ever; declaring that the plague, as he called it, was at his sole command;
ever; who ever heard that the devil was dead?  Did you ever see any parson a
everybody in the Jeroboam.  His story was this: He had been originally
faded walnut tinge enveloped him; the overlapping sleeves of which were
first place, you are struck by the general contrast between these heads.
five men to man his boat.  With them he pushed off; and, after
flaming ship; heart to heart they sank beneath the exulting wave; true to
for his tail, take it to the capstan, and give him such a wrenching and
for the Jeroboam's whaling voyage.  They engaged him;
for what is it that makes the front of a man --what, indeed, but his eyes?
former the lips and tongue are separately removed and hoisted on deck, with
forth prophecies of speedy doom to the sacrilegious assailants of his
foundations.  Where unrecorded names and navies rust, and untold hopes and
frequent interruptions from Gabriel, whenever his name was mentioned, and
frightful roll and vomit, he turned upon his back a corpse.  While the two
from Starbuck's hands, he caught it in the slit of the pole, and reached it
from rowing; the boat drifted a little towards the ship's stern; so that, as
getting the mass in readiness for towing, some conversation ensued between
ghost of a Fedallah saying so, and he seems to know all about ships' charms.
giant Holofernes's from the girdle of Judith.  When this last task was
gibbering insanity, pronouncing the White Whale to be no less a being than the
governor, "What business is that of yours," says the devil, getting mad, --"I
great prophet; in their cracked, secret meetings having several times
half-suspended mass, placed its other end crutch-wise under one arm, and so
hand it to the boat, without its coming any closer to the ship.  Meantime, Ahab
hanging from the Pequod's side; and as we may freely go from one to the
have been rid of him; but apprised that that individual's intention was to
have so much to do with him for?  Striking up a swap or a bargain, I
having been stowed away on board ship?  He's the devil, I say.  The reason why
having plenty of line yet in the tubs, and the whale not sounding very
he set himself forth as the deliverer of the isles of the sea and
he was studying it out, Starbuck took a long cutting-spade pole, and with his
he!  that's he!  the long-togged scaramouch the Town-Ho's company told us of!
he'll sneak off without the poor satisfaction of feeling his tail between his
headsmen were engaged in making fast cords to his flukes, and in other ways
heaving, that his tail will come short off at the stump --do you see; and
her bows, snapping and quivering; and so flinging off its drippings, that
her even keel; though sorely strained, you may well believe.  So, when on one
him again; and keep ducking him.  Suppose he should take it into his head to
him, I'll eat this whale in one mouthful.  But look sharp-- aint you all ready
his death his ghost becomes a powerless panic to a world.  Are you a believer
his face in the admiral's cabin again for a long while, let alone down in the
his feet, glaring
holding the letter, muttered, Mr. Har--yes, Mr. Harry--(a woman's pinny hand,
home.  Well, he was at home, and asked the devil what he wanted.  The devil,
if I see anything very suspicious going on, I'll just take him by the nape
if by magic, the letter suddenly ranged along with Gabriel's eager hand.  He
ignoble a leviathan.  Wants with it?  said Flask, coiling some spare line in
imagination, and all the preternatural terrors of real delirium, united to
in a coil of rigging.  No doubt, and it's because of his cursed tail; he
in case this intention was carried out.  So strongly did he work upon his
in ghosts, my friend?  There are other ghosts than the Cock-Lane one, and far
in life the great whale's body may have been a real terror to his foes, in
in the Jeroboam's boat, was a man of a singular appearance, even in that wild
inferior creatures; and though the Pequod was not commissioned to cruise for
instances than one, when the body has been recovered, not a single mark of
instead of containing gunpowder, was supposed to be charged with laudanum.  A
interlude, the seamen resumed their work upon the jacket of the whale, many
into direct contact with the Pequod.  But this did by no means prevent all
invest this Gabriel in the minds of the majority of the ignorant crew, with
involuntarily yield the immense superiority to him, in point of pervading
is a curious chap, and a wicked one, I tell ye.  Why, they say as how he
is going to live for ever, what good will it do to pitch him overboard --tell
is hoisted on deck to be deliberately disposed of.  But, with a full grown
is mainly observable in their heads; and as a head of each is this moment
it
it's Macey, and he's dead!  Poor fellow!  poor fellow!  and from his wife,
it, sent it thus loaded back into the ship.  It fell at Ahab's feet.  Then
it; and if he makes any fuss, by the Lord I'll make a grab into his pocket
just now, that you meant to give Fedallah a sea-toss, if you got a good
kidnapping people; aye, and signed a bond with him, that all the people the
knife slightly split the end, to insert the letter there, and in that way,
land him in the first convenient port, the archangel forthwith opened all his
leaning over to it, by reason of the enormous downward drag from the lower
legs.  And what will you do with the tail, Stubb?  Do with it?  Sell it for
leviathan this is impossible; for the sperm whale's head embraces nearly one
like that chap, Stubb.  Did you ever notice how that tusk of his is a sort of
lines in his own hand.  And Ahab chanced so to stand, that the Parsee
lookest hoary with mosses; speak, mighty head, and tell us the secret thing
main-chains he took Stubb's long spade --still remaining there after the
main-masthead.  Aye?  Well, now, that's cheering, cried Ahab, suddenly
main-royal mast-head, was tossing one arm in frantic gestures, and hurling
make oughts enough.  but see here, stubb, i thought you a little boasted
man among her crew, some time previous when the Pequod spoke the Town-Ho.
man!  how far beyond all utterance are your linked analogies!  not the
man, however, was not of much practical use in the ship, especially as he
mast-head, and every yard-arm on that side projecting like a crane over the
mast-heads proved her a whale-ship.  but as she was so far to windward, and
mates; and since the epidemic had broken out, he carried a higher hand than
me that?  Give him a good ducking, anyhow.  But he'd crawl back.  Duck
measureless self-deception of the fanatic himself, as his measureless power
mind.
more character in the Sperm Whale's head.  As you behold it, you
mostly poor devils, cringed, and some of them fawned before him; in
much weary pulling, and many perilous, unsuccessful onsets, he at last
muttered Ahab, which, though ungarnished with a beard, yet here and there
nameless terror to the ship.  Mayhew having concluded his narration, Ahab put
neck; on the contrary, where his head and body seem to join, there, in that
noiseless measureless leaves upon the sea.  A short space elapsed, and up into
nor should it be stayed but according to his good pleasure.  The sailors,
not long left home, when upon speaking a whale-ship, her people were
now on board the Pequod?
now take all the hoops in the Pequod's hold, and string 'em along in a row
nurtured among the crazy society of Neskyeuna Shakers, where he had been a
oarsman's head; but the mate for ever sank.  It is well to parenthesize here,
obedience to his instructions, sometimes rendering him personal homage, as to
occupied his shadow; while, if the Parsee's shadow was there at all it seemed
of deceiving and bedevilling so many others.  But it is time to return to the
of his neck, and say --Look here, Beelzebub, you don't do
of the Leviathan that but few supposed to be at this particular time lurking
oftentimes tumultuous and bursting sea.  Bear in mind, too, that under these
one of thy officers, if I mistake not.  Starbuck, look over the bag.  Every
only making a general prophecy, which any one might have done, and so have
only to blend with, and lengthen Ahab's.  As the crew toiled on, Laplandish
opening of the seventh vial, which he carried in his vest-pocket; but, which,
operate from above, some eight or ten feet intervening between him and his
or three years or more.  Soon Starbuck returned with a letter in his hand.  It
or two afterwards, Moby Dick was fairly sighted from the mast-heads, Macey,
organ imparts.  The whale, therefore, must see one distinct picture on this
orlop there, where he lives, and hereabouts on the upper decks where he
other, by merely stepping across the deck: --where, I should like to know,
out on the world from a sentry-box with two joined sashes for his window.
over towards the boat.  But as he did so, the oarsmen expectantly desisted
parallel to the Pequod, as she heavily forged through the sea (for by this
patches of
pepper and salt color of his head at the summit, giving token of advanced age
perhaps, ships shun the place; leaping over it as silly sheep leap over a
picture and not two to the brain; the peculiar position of the whale's eyes,
piercing shriek -- The vial!  the vial!  Gabriel called off the
planted as imperceptibly to blend their visual power, so as to produce one
point hard by its insertion into the skull.  Do you not marvel,
point of being brought with a deadly dash against the vessel's side.  But
previous to completely stripping the body of the leviathan, he was beheaded.
profound darkness and nothingness to him.  Man may, in effect, be said to look
puzzling question might be started concerning
quarter-deck, he paused to gaze over the side, then slowly getting into the
rapidly, they paid out abundance of rope, and at the same time pulled with
reach their mark; and many are only received after attaining an age of two
reason.  Consider that the whale has nothing that can properly be called a
refused to work except when he pleased, the incredulous captain would fain
regularly hunted by man.  To the Nantucketer, they present the two extremes of
reigned over the before tumultuous but now deserted deck.  An intense copper
reliably apprised of the existence of Moby Dick, and the havoc he had made.
remembered by the reader in some subsequent scenes.  A curious and most
responded to by the stranger's setting her own; which proved the ship to be
right whale's head hoisted up opposite that parmacetti's.  In good time,
rolled up on his wrists.  A deep, settled, fanatic delirium was in his eyes.
said for some moments, while a succession of riotous waves rolled by, which
same preliminary proceedings commonly take place as in the case of a sperm
seals and vials -- devoting the ship and all hands to unconditional perdition,
securing him.  Didn't I tell you so?  said Flask; yes, you'll soon see this
seemed the Sphynx's in the desert.  Speak, thou vast and venerable head,
seen enough to split the planets and make an infidel of Abraham, and not one
ship, the Jeroboam's boat by the occasional use of its oars contrived to keep
ships of the American Whale Fleet have each a private signal; all which
shooting by, apparently making a passage to some other ground, the Pequod
shrieked out to his comrades to give way with their oars, and in that manner
side --about half way out of the sea, so that it might yet in great part be
side you hoist in Locke's head, you go over that way; but now, on the other
side, and another distinct picture on that side; while all between must be
side, hoist in Kant's and you come back again; but in very poor plight.
side, where fluke chains and other necessaries were already prepared for
side-ladder was being rigged by Starbuck's order to accommodate the visiting
sighed Mayhew; but let me have it.  Nay, keep it thyself, cried Gabriel to
signals being collected in a book with the names of the respective vessels
skylarking; how can Fedallah do that?  I don't know, Flask, but the devil
slept by many a sailor's side, where sleepless mothers would give their lives
small, short, youngish man, sprinkled all over his face with freckles, and
smallest atom stirs or lives on matter, but has its cunning duplicate in
sneaks so much.  Damn the devil, Flask; do you suppose I'm afraid of the
some way ahead; but would be soon skilfully brought to her proper bearings
sort, and then he'll surrender Moby Dick.  Pooh!  Stubb, you are
speculations were bandied among them, concerning all these passing things.
steady, common sense exterior and offered himself as a green-hand candidate
stood leaning over with eyes attentively fixed on this head.  It was a black
stoven and sunk!  Beware of the horrible tail!  I tell thee again, Gabriel,
strange things were hinted in reference to this wild affair.
strange, apostolic whim having seized him, he had left Neskyeuna for
struggle was intensely critical; for while they still slacked out the
subject, and that subject almost hidden in a discolored, rolling, and
subterraneous manner, without so much as getting one single peep into the
succeeded in getting one iron fast.  Meantime, Gabriel, ascending to the
such questions to him, that the stranger captain could not forbear inquiring
suddenly going down in a maelstrom, within three rods of the planks, he
suddenly in the distance, they saw a great heap of tumultuous white water,
suppose that that devil you was speaking of just now, was the same you say is
suppose.  Bargain? --about what?  Why, do ye see, the old man is hard bent
switching his hoofs, up and says, "I want John." "What for?" says the old
syllable is thine!  Sail ho!  cried a triumphant voice from the
symmetry in the Sperm Whale's which the Right Whale's sadly lacks.  There is
temporarily taking the breath out of the bodies of the oarsmen.  Next instant,
terror-stricken crew from the further hunting of the whale.  This terrible
than if he were stealing upon you from behind.  In a word, you would have two
that Gabriel had the complete freedom of the ship.  The consequence of all
that a Right Whale should be captured that day, if opportunity offered.  Nor
that head upon which the upper sun now gleams, has moved amid this world's
that is in thee.  Of all divers, thou hast dived the deepest.
that mainmast there?  pointing to the ship; well, that's the figure one;
that poured from the smitten rock.  At last his spout grew thick, and with a
that they performed a complete circuit.  Meantime, they hauled more and more
that way, and to my breezelessness bring his breeze!  O Nature, and O soul of
that, Mr. Flask?  How old do you suppose Fedallah is, Stubb?  Do you see
that-- But again the boat tore ahead as if dragged by fiends.  Nothing was
the
the Jeroboam of Nantucket.  Squaring her yards, she bore down, ranged abeam
the admiral's cabin, don't you suppose he can crawl into a port-hole?  Tell me
the boat's bow, did you never hear that the ship which but once has a Sperm
the chief mate, burned with ardor to encounter him; and the captain himself
the crazy sea that seemed leagued with him.  It seemed that the Jeroboam had
the cry from the ship to the boats, which, for one instant, seemed on the
the devil didn't give John the Asiatic cholera before he got through with
the drops fell like bits of broken glass on the water, while the whale
the falling form of Macey, was plainly descried from the ship.  Raising a
the luckless mate, so full of furious life, was smitten bodily into the air,
the mutinous boat rapidly shot away from the Pequod.  As, after this
the present other matters press, and the best we can do now for the head, is
the scaramouch in question had gained a wonderful ascendency over almost
the ship.  The boats were here hailed, to tow the whale on the larboard
the sperm whale's head, now, by the counterpoise of both heads, she regained
the story of your obstinate survival of old beliefs never bottomed on the
the whale's eyes corresponds to that of a man's ears; and you may fancy, for
them at all, and though she had passed numbers of them near the Crozetts
them.  I wonder what the old man wants with this lump of foul lard, said
then, I rather guess when he finds himself docked in that queer fashion,
then, at Stubb's boast, that he demanded but ten minutes to behead a sperm
there?  Well, then, pull ahead, and let's get the whale alongside.  I think
these thunder-heads overboard, and then you will float light and right.  In
thigh-board, in which the headsman stands, is torn from its place and
third of his entire bulk, and completely to suspend such a burden as that,
this noiselessness came Ahab alone from his cabin.  Taking a few turns on the
this was, that the archangel cared little or nothing for the captain and
this, of course, must wholly separate the impressions which each independent
thus annihilated; oftener the boat's bow is knocked off, or the
thy most familiar home.  Thou hast been where bell or diver never went; hast
tightened line in one direction, and still plied their oars in another, the
time it blew very fresh), with her main-topsail aback; though, indeed, at
times by the sudden onset of a large rolling wave, the boat would be pushed
to Captain Mayhew, who stood in the boat's stern; come on board.  But now
to be any way maltreated, say or do what he would; so that it came to pass
to fly.  But the fagged whale abated his speed, and blindly altering his
to lay them down.  Thou saw'st the locked lovers when leaping from their
to pray heaven the tackles may hold.  Now, during the past night and forenoon,
to rock.  By and by, through the glass the stranger's boats and manned
to the magnitude of the head.  Now, from this peculiar sideway position of the
together our own.  Of the grand order of folio leviathans, the Sperm Whale and
token of that proceeding being entirely unnecessary.  It turned out that the
told him if Gabriel was sent from the ship, not a man of them would remain.
towers between them like a great mountain separating two lakes in valleys;
true.  Nor is the history of fanatics half so striking in respect to the
try it; I'd give him such a pair of black eyes that he wouldn't dare to show
two boats were slowly advancing with their burden towards the ship, but I
two great whales, laying their heads together; let us join them, and lay
under the Pequod's lee, and lowered a boat; it soon drew nigh; but, as the
unharmed --while swift lightnings shivered the neighboring ship that would have
untoward circumstances he has to cut many feet deep in the flesh; and in that
upon the old man, and vehemently exclaimed, with downward pointed finger
upon the whale, and essaying to get a fair chance for his poised lance, lo!
upon their lines, till close flanking him on both sides, Stubb answered
vacuum, because their leader originally leaped there when a stick was held.
very place, is the thickest part of him.  Remember, also, that the surgeon must
vicar-general of all Oceanica.  The unflinching earnestness with which he
violence is discernible; the man being stark dead.  The whole calamity, with
vision in advance of the straight side-line of sight; and about thirty more
want to use him." "Take him," says the governor --and by the Lord, Flask, if
was fearful of infecting the Pequod's company.  For, though himself and boat's
was sorely tumbled, damp, and covered with a dull, spotted, green mould, in
was this long wanting.  Tall spouts were seen to leeward; and two boats,
waves; there, that blood-dripping head hung to the Pequod's waist like the
wearing mourning for the devil?  And if the devil has a latch-key to get into
wearing redundant yellow hair.  A long-skirted, cabalistically-cut coat of a
went a sauntering into the old flag-ship once, switching his tail about
went, while the multitudes of sharks that had before swum round the Sperm
whale's decapitation --and striking it into the lower part of the
whale's eyes is a thing always to be borne in mind in the fishery; and to be
whale's eyes, it is plain that he can never see an object which is exactly
whale's jaw, if you narrowly search, you will at last see a lashless eye,
whale-ship takes out a goodly number of letters for various ships, whose
whale; only, in the latter instance, the head is cut off whole, but in the
whale?  When first severed, the head is dropped astern and held there by a
whaling life where individual notabilities make up all totalities.  He was a
when instantly, a swift tremor was felt running like lightning along the keel,
when tossed by pirates from the midnight deck; for hours he fell into the
whether he intended to hunt the White Whale, if opportunity should offer.  To
which Ahab answered -- Aye.  Straightway, then, Gabriel once more started to
which experienced whale surgeons very much pride themselves; and not without
which you would fancy to be a young colt's eye; so out of all proportion is it
wholly disappeared from view, as if diving under the keel.  Cut, cut!  was
will you obtain a better chance to study practical cetology than here?  In the
with all the reckless energy of his tribe was venting his wild exclamations
with that mast, for oughts, do you see; well, that wouldn't begin to be
without lowering a boat; yet now that a Sperm Whale had been brought
without still another interruption of a very different sort.  Pulling an oar
wrinkles there to the
years afterwards,
yellow brit, gave unusual tokens of the vicinity of Right Whales, a species
you don't see his tail, is because he tucks it up out of sight; he carries
your ears.  You would find that you could only command some thirty degrees of
yourself, how it would fare with you, did you sideways survey objects through
