






























     Astern there, sir, astern!  Lo, lo!  And who art thou, boy?  I see not my
     Besides, the old man well knew that to steer by transpointed needles, though
     Excellent!  Thou'st hit the world by that.  I know not, sir, but I was born
     Faith?  What's that?  Why, faith, sir, it's only a sort of exclamation-like
     I wrecked thee, and to-day the compasses would feign have wrecked me.  So,
     Mend it, eh?  I think we had best have a new line altogether.  I'll see Mr.
     Next day, a large
     Next morning the not-yet-subsided sea
     Oh, boy, nor will I thee, unless I should thereby drag thee to worse horrors
     Owing to a confident reliance upon other means of determining the vessel's
     Sing, sir?  Do I sing?  Oh, I'm indifferent enough, sir, for that; but the
     Starbuck seemed wrestling with an angel; but turning from the door, he
     Steering now south-eastward by Ahab's
     The coffin laid upon two line-tubs, between
     There he goes now; to him nothing's happened; but to me, the skewer seems
     There's a sight!  There's sound!  The greyheaded woodpecker tapping the
     We must save that boy.  He's drowned with the rest on 'em, last night, said
     While now the fated Pequod had been
     and not finding anything, had again dashed on; again paused, and lowered her
     and the grave-digger in the play sings, spade in hand.  Dost thou never?
     have his way.  If, then, he were this instant--put aside, that crime would
     head of the lance, and then handing to the mate the long iron rod remaining,
     oh, it's his son he's lost!  I take back the coat and watch --what says Ahab?
     or forty turns to form a preliminary hand-coil to toss overboard, when the
     thee by thy black hand, than though I grasped an Emperor's!  There go two
     things real are there, but imponderable thoughts?  Here now's the very
     to it.
     when in distress, but also from the human look of their round heads and
     where his bayonet
     while Stubb and Flask --who in some small degree seemed then to be sharing
     woman of sixty-five who ran away with a bald-headed young tinker once.  And
--Aye and he would fain kill all his crew.  Does he not say he will not strike
--I hold it here; he would have killed me with the very thing I handle now.
--he called for linen thread; and moving to the binnacle, slipped out the two
--if there be no other way --for eight-and-forty hours only --only that --you
--that one and all, they started from their reveries, and for the space of
--that's all, sir.  Um, um; go on.  I was about to say, sir, that-- Art
--there's naught beneath.  And yet, a coffin with a body in it rings pretty
.. < chapter cxxiv 25  THE NEEDLE >
.. < chapter cxxv 6  THE LOG AND LINE >
.. < chapter cxxvi 14  THE LIFE-BUOY >
.. < chapter cxxvii 2  THE DECK >
.. < chapter cxxviii 9  THE PEQUOD MEETS THE RACHEL >
.. <p 507 >
.. <p 508 >
.. <p 508 >
.. <p 509 >
.. <p 510 >
.. <p 511 >
.. <p 512 >
.. <p 512 >
.. <p 513 >
.. <p 514 >
.. <p 515 >
.. <p 515 >
.. <p 516 >
.. <p 517 >
.. <p 518 >
.. <p 519 >
.. <p 520 >
.. <p 521 >
.. <p 521 >
.. <p 522 >
.. <p 523 >
Abashed glances of servile wonder were exchanged by the sailors, as this was
And look ye, let the carpenter make another log, and mend thou the line.  See
But heedless of all this, his mood seized Ahab, as he happened to glance
Captain Ahab!  sir, sir!  here's Pip, trying to get on board again.  Peace,
Christian or civilized part of the crew said it was mermaids, and shuddered;
Cruppered with a coffin!  Sailing about with a grave-yard tray!  But never
Fate.  But as ever before, the pagan harpooneers remained almost wholly
Flask --was startled by a cry so plaintively wild and unearthly --like
God's sake --I beg, I conjure --here exclaimed the stranger Captain to Ahab,
I kept my job-shop in the Vineyard; they might have taken it into their
I must see.  Aye, aye; and powder in the pan; -- that's not good.  Best spill
I then pay over the same with pitch, sir?  moving his hand as with a
Isle of Albemarle, one of the Gallipagos, is cut by the Equator right in the
Moby Dick had suddenly loomed up out of the blue water, not very far to
Only a fool would try it.  Say he were pinioned even; knotted all over with
Pequod thrust her undaunted bows into the opposing wind, for the supposed
Pequod was as infallibly going West.  But ere the first wild alarm could get
Pequod's main-chains, and he sprang to the deck.  Immediately he was
Pequod.  He desired that ship to unite with his own in the search; by sailing
Pip?  come to help; eh, Pip?  Pip?  whom call ye Pip?  Pip jumped from the
Rachel's the more melancholy, was the circumstance, that not only was one of
Rat-tat!  So man's seconds tick!  Oh!  how immaterial are all materials!  What
Starbuck looked away.  With a blow from the top-maul Ahab knocked off the steel
Starbuck, after a melancholy pause.  Rig it, carpenter; do not look at me
Stubb about it.
Stubb.  It will make a good enough one, said Flask, the carpenter here can
Tahitian and the grizzly Manxman.  Take the reel, one of ye, I'll heave.
The land is hundreds of leagues away, and locked Japan the nearest.  I stand
The recall signals were placed in the rigging; darkness came on; and forced
They went towards the extreme stern, on the ship's lee side, where the deck,
Titans, they say, hummed snatches when chipping out the craters for volcanoes;
Turk's-headed life-lines, each three feet long hanging all round to the
What!  hope to wrest this old man's living power from his own living hands?
White Whale, on the White Whale's own
a double horizon, as it were.  I will wager something now, whispered Stubb
a life-buoy of it.  It's like turning an old coat; going to bring the flesh on
a shoal of whales, which had led them some four or five miles from the ship;
above the snow-line.  Oh, ye frozen heavens!  look down here.  Ye did beget
advanced to him.  Ahab stood before him, and was lightly unwinding some thirty
advancing.  Hands off from that holiness!  Where sayest thou Pip was, boy?
advancing.  How was it?  It seemed that somewhat late on the afternoon of the
again.  Now, then, Pip, we'll talk this over; I do suck most wondrous
again. --Oh Mary!  Mary! --boy!  boy!  boy! --But if I wake thee not to death, old
against the door.  On this level, Ahab's hammock swings within; his head
ahead; and when she profoundly settled by the stern, he turned behind, and
all inquiring heads at last.  Up with it!  So.  The log was heaved.  The
all my pains to go for nothing with that coffin?  And now I'm ordered to make
all these seemed the strange calm things preluding some riotous and desperate
alone here upon an open sea, with two oceans and a whole continent between
am I in the dark side of earth, that its other side, the theoretic bright one,
an immortality-preserver!  I'll think of that.  But no.  So far gone
and I'm the professor of musical glasses --tap, tap! ( Ahab to himself.)
and angular log attached hung, long untouched, just beneath the railing of
and doom, -- that's fair for Moby Dick.  It's a fair wind that's only fair for
and line.  The ship was sailing plungingly; astern the billows rolled in
and set; she heads her course.  Stern all!  Oh Moby Dick, I clutch thy heart
and skin together? --And would I be a murderer, then, if --and slowly,
and while they were yet in swift chase to windward, the white hump and head of
arm slowly fell; for a moment he almost seemed to stagger.  Standing behind
arrange it easily.  Bring it up; there's nothing else for it, said
asleep, Mr Stubb; go thou down, and wake him, and tell him.  I must see to
astern?  Upon this every soul was confounded; for the phenomenon just then
at its every pore; and the studded iron-bound cask followed the sailor to the
at last!  Such were the sounds that now came hurtling from out the old man's
at the beginning, and is at the middle when midway, and comes to an end at
bade him hold it upright, without its touching the deck.  Then, with the
be more hideous than a caged tiger, then.  I could not endure the sight;
believe it did, sir; does the ferrule stand, sir?  Well enough.  But art
bit of steel Ahab can make one of his own, that will point as true as any.
blinding palpableness must have been the cause.  Thrusting his head half way
blunted needle endwise on the top of it, and less strongly hammered that,
boat --the swiftest keeled of all --seemed to have succeeded in fastening --at
boats; and though she had thus continued doing till day light; yet not the
bosom of his frock. --Ahab comes slowly from the cabin-gangway, and hears Pip
bosom!  Despatch!  and get these traps out of sight.  He goes aft.  That was
bottom, as if to yield him his pillow, though in sooth but a hard one.  And
boy; Ahab's cabin shall be Pip's home henceforth, while Ahab lives.  Thou
bubbling white water; and after that nothing more; whence it was concluded
burst, and all life fled from the smitten hull.  Bad news; she brings bad
but I make a bandbox for Queequeg, and he wont put his head into it.  Are
but as no cask of sufficient lightness could be found, and as in the feverish
but no hand rose to seize it, and the sun having long beat upon this cask
but snow-caps.  Let me see.  Nail down the lid; caulk the seams; pay over
but the pagan harpooneers remained
can't withstand thee, then, old man.  Not reasoning; not remonstrance; not
carved Roman slave, while that wild cry remained within hearing.  The
clenched fist.  Heading East at this hour in the morning, and the sun
clumsily practicable, was not a thing to be passed over by superstitious
coat; mayhap, his watch --he's so cursed anxious to get it back.  Who ever
coffin for Queequeg; but they've set me now to turning it into something
coffin knock against the churchyard gate, going in?  Faith, sir, I've--
coffin!  cried Starbuck, starting.  Rather queer, that, I should say, said
coffin, and no more. --Mr. Stubb, Mr. Flask, come forward with me.  He goes
coffin.  Then, if the hull go down, there'll be thirty lively fellows all
coffins and hearses.  We work by the month, or by the job, or by the profit;
coffins?  Thou art as unprincipled as the gods, and as much of a
company with her, crying and sobbing with their human sort of wail.  But this
compasses --that's all.  Thou hast before now heard of such a thing, I take
confounded cobbling, and then we stash it if we can.  hem!  i'll do the job,
could not possibly fly his howlings; all comfort, sleep itself, inestimable
course to be changed accordingly.  The yards were hard up; and once more the
daft ones now, muttered the old Manxman.  One daft with strength, the other
daft with weakness.  But here's the end of the rotten line --all dripping, too.
dashed to the deck.  Thou poor, proud heaven-gazer and sun's pilot!  yesterday
dawn, was sailing by a cluster of rocky islets; the watch --then headed by
dawn, when he came to the deck; it was then recounted to him by Flask, not
day coffins to clap them in, and yet again life-buoys out of those same
day previous, while three of the stranger's boats were engaged with
deadly harm; and come to deadly harm, my soul swears this ship will, if Ahab
demanded, my men, the thunder turned old Ahab's needles; but out of this
descending her side.  A few keen pulls, and his boat-hook soon clinched the
dictating the thing he was now about to do, were certain prudential motives,
dreaded symbol of grim death, by a mere hap, made the expressive sign of the
dropped from the stern, where it always hung obedient to a cunning spring;
eagerness of what seemed the approaching crisis of the voyage, all hands were
either case, the needle never again, of itself, recovers the original virtue
else.  Then tell me; art thou not an arrant, all-grasping, inter-meddling,
empty into thee!
entreaty wilt thou hearken to; all this thou scornest.  Flat obedience to thy
error-abounding log?  and in this very Typhoon, did he not swear that he
essentially one with the electricity beheld in heaven; hence it is not to be
exchanged.  Where was he? --not killed! --not killed!  cried Ahab, closely
exclaimed, --Look ye, for yourselves, if Ahab be not the lord of the level
explained the wonder.  Those rocky islands the ship had passed were the resort
extended hand, now took the precise bearing of the sun, and satisfied that
eyeing the transpointed compasses, the old man, with the sharp of his
eyes could persuade such ignorance as theirs, and one after another they
fair one had only been juggling her.  Meanwhile, whatever were his own secret
fatal; all its loadstone virtue being annihilated, so that the before
fate reaches all the others that may be in the ship; even were the lowermost
felt so kind a thing as this, perhaps he had ne'er been lost!  This seems to
fighting for one coffin, a sight not seen very often beneath the sun!  Come
fisherman.  It drags hard; I guess he's holding on.  Jerk him, Tahiti!  Jerk
following him.  Back, lad; I will be with ye again presently.  He goes!  Not
for form's sake than anything else, regularly putting down upon the customary
for men.  But the bodings of the crew were destined to receive a most
foreshadowing of evil in the future, but as the fulfilment of an evil already
frankly back from the binnacle, and pointing his stretched arm towards it,
full of it.  Hark to it.  Aye, and that's because the lid there's a
full of the sweet things of love and gratitude.  Come!  I feel prouder leading
further?  Can it be that in some spiritual sense the coffin is, after all, but
gods again.  hark ye, dost thou not ever sing working about a coffin?  The
goodness, and in man all ill, lo you!  see the omniscient gods oblivious of
grey hairs of mine 'tis not worth while disputing, 'specially with a
gurgling track, pushed her on like giants' palms outspread.  The strong,
half-articulated wailings of the ghosts of all Herod's murdered Innocents
hammer, calking-iron, pitch-pot, and marling-spike!  Let's to it.
handled so many deadly lances, strange, that I should shake so now.  Loaded?
have been because there was none in his spade, sir.  But the calking mallet is
have spoiled it. 'Twill hold, old gentleman.  Long heat and wet, have they
have vow'd thy vow; say'st all of us are Ahabs.  Great God forbid! -- But is
he's sleeping.  Sleeping?  aye, but still alive, and soon awake again.  I
heard of two pious whale-ships cruising after
heard.  Hast seen the White Whale?  Aye, yesterday.  Have ye seen a
heart-strings.  Come, let's down.  What's this?  here's velvet shark-skin,
help and hope of most endangered life.  A life-buoy of a coffin!  Does it go
him Starbuck looked, and lo!  the two compasses pointed East, and the
him off; we haul in no cowards here.  Ho!  there's his arm just breaking
his fatal pride.
his feelings --likewise unmurmuringly acquiesced.  As for the men, though some
his perch, when a cry was heard --a cry and a rushing --and looking up, they
his quadrant was no more, and recalled his frantic oath about the level log
his spars to any gale?  Has he not dashed his heavenly quadrant?  and in these
his subtile skill, in a matter so wondrous as that of the inverted compasses.
his undeviating wake.  Ha, ha, my ship!  thou mightest well be taken now for
hollow tree!  Blind and dumb might well be envied now.  See!  that thing rests
impatient of any toil but what was directly connected with its final end,
instantly lowered in chase.  After a keen sail before the wind, this fourth
intently gazing at Ahab's hand, and feeling it.  Ah, now, had poor Pip but
into the binnacle, Ahab caught one glimpse of the compasses; his uplifted
inuendoes Queequeg hinted a hint concerning his coffin.  A life-buoy of a
it --lift it.  Strange, that I, who have
it at all; it's undignified; it's not my place.  Let tinkers' brats do
it had shrunken, so that it slowly filled, and the parched wood also filled
it!  It has happened before.  Mr. Starbuck, last night's thunder turned our
it.  Aye; but never before has it happened to me, sir, said the pale
it? --wait.  I'll cure myself of this. I'll hold the musket boldly while I
itself.  He would have shot me once, he murmured, yes, there's the very
jack-of-all-trades.  But I do not mean anything, sir.  I do as I do.  The
jobs.  Lord!  what an affection all old women have for tinkers.  I know an old
last safe aboard, she crowded all sail --stunsail on stunsail --after the
least glimpse of the missing keel had been seen.  The story told, the
least, as well as the man at the mast-head could tell anything about it.  In
leeward; whereupon, the fourth rigged boat --a reserved one --had been
let me charter your ship --I will gladly pay for it, and roundly pay for it
levelled steel, and her progress solely determined by Ahab's level log and
light, the invisible sun was only known by the spread intensity of his place;
lightning has actually struck the vessel, so as to smite down some of the
like this.  i make a leg for captain ahab, and he wears it like a gentleman;
line; the Pequod held on her path towards the Equator.  Making so long a
lines run whole, and whirling out: come in broken, and dragging slow.  Ha,
loadstone!  The sun is East, and that compass swears it!  One after another
log-line.  But Ahab can mend all.  Haul in here, Tahitian; reel up, Manxman.
lonely old heads to run off with me.  But heigh-ho!  there are no caps at sea
look, sir!  Beware the hatchway!  Thank ye, man.  Thy coffin lies handy to
loose coils rapidly straightened out in a long dragging line astern, and
loosening out of the middle of the world.  Haul in, haul in, Tahitian!  These
lost life-buoy was now to be replaced; Starbuck was directed to see to it;
lowered by the rolling billows, the towing resistance of the log caused the
magnetic energy, as developed in the mariner's needle, is, as all know,
magnetic steel was of no more use than an old wife's knitting needle.  But in
make him the wilful murderer of thirty men and more, if this ship come to any
man from Man; a man born in once independent Man, and now unmanned of Man;
man, who can tell to what unsounded deeps Starbuck's body this day week may
mate, gloomily.  Here, it must needs be said, that accidents like this have in
maul, after repeatedly smiting the upper end of this iron rod, he placed the
me and law. --Aye, aye, 'tis so. --Is heaven a murderer
me, sir, as a man-rope; something that weak souls may hold by.  Oh, sir, let
men in the sea.  below in his hammock, ahab did not hear of this till grey
middle, over one of the compass-cards.  At first, the steel went round and
middle.  He's always under the Line--fiery hot, I tell ye!  He's looking this
middle.  Seems to me some sort of Equator cuts yon old man, too, right in his
mind.  We workers in woods make bridal-bedsteads and card-tables, as well as
missing boat; kindling a fire in her try-pots for a beacon; and every
monopolizing, heathenish old scamp, to be one day making legs, and the next
more than one case occurred to ships in violent storms.  The
mouth, stood up in his boat; ere he could hopefully hail, Ahab's voice was
much marvelled at, that such things should be.  In instances where the
much the same, Carpenter.  Hast thou ever helped carry a bier, and heard the
musket that he pointed at me; --that one with the studded stock; let me touch
muskets, there strangely evolved an evil thought; but so blent with its
must, oh, you must, and you shall do this thing.  His son!  cried Stubb,
necessitated to leave that boat to its fate till near midnight, but, for the
neutral or good accompaniments that for the instant he hardly knew it for
news, muttered the old Manxman.  But ere her commander, who, with trumpet to
not be his.  Ha!  is he muttering in his sleep?  Yes, just there, --in there,
not for us to ask the why and wherefore of our work, unless it be too
not thou the leg-maker?  Look, did not this stump come from thy shop?  I
now, tenderly.  I'll have me --let's see --how many in the ship's company, all
observed by Ahab had unaccountably escaped every one else; but its very
of a church!  What's here?  Life buoy, sir.  Mr. Starbuck's orders.  Oh,
of clay reward for Pip; five feet high-- looks cowardly --quickest known by
of great numbers of seals, and some young seals that had lost their dams,
of line revolved, so stood with the angular log hanging downwards, till Ahab
of the steel, or merely intended to augment the awe of the crew, is uncertain
of them lowly rumbled, their fear of Ahab was greater than their fear of
off in a huff.  The whole he can endure; at the parts he baulks.  Now I don't
often happens.  There was some apprehension, but no positive alarm, as yet.
old Manxman, who was intently eyeing both him and the line, made bold to
old Perth now come and rivet these two hands together; the black one with the
old reelman to stagger strangely.  Hold hard!  Snap!  the overstrained line
on two line-tubs, full of tow-lines.  A most malicious wag, that fellow.
one in the precisely opposite direction --the ship had not only been
one inserted into the kelson.  Deliberately standing before the binnacle, and
one missing whale-boat in the height of the whaling season?  See, Flask, only
only the more affected some of them, because most mariners cherish a very
or some dams that had lost their cubs, must have risen nigh the ship and kept
other man aloft on the look-out.  But though when she had thus sailed a
out abroad among the crew, the old man with a rigid laugh exclaimed, I have
over the sea some four or five miles apart, on parallel lines, and so sweeping
over the ship's stern.  Were ever such things done before with a coffin?  Some
own flat commands, this is all thou breathest.  Aye, and say'st the men
passage through such unfrequented waters, descrying no ships, and ere long,
peculiar ground; that man was swallowed up in the deep.  But few, perhaps,
philosophies from thee!  Some unknown conduits from the unknown worlds must
pitch-pot.  Away!  What possesses thee to this?  Make a life-buoy of the
pitched down her bowsprit, he turned to eye the bright sun's rays produced
place, some merchantmen, and many whalemen, especially when cruising,
place, when Ahab, who had been intently watching for this result, stepped
placed the death-tube in its rack, and left the place.  He's too sound
plausible confirmation in the fate of one of their number that morning.  At
presaged.  They declared that now they knew the reason of those wild shrieks
professor in Queen Nature's granite-founded College; but methinks he's too
progression every hour.  It had been thus with the Pequod.  The wooden reel
quadrant, the thunder turns the needles, and now the mad sea parts the
quarter-deck!  The greater idiot ever scolds the lesser, muttered Ahab,
queens, reigned over everything.  The sea was as a crucible of molten gold,
rays moved on in stacks.  Emblazonings, as of crowned Babylonian kings and
reason why the grave-digger made music must
reason would leave me on the long intolerable voyage.  What, then, remains?
recognized by ahab for a nantucketer he knew.  But no formal salutation was
reflection in the vacant pupils of thy eyes.  Oh God!  that man should be a
reversed needles there, and horizontally suspended the sail-needle by its
riots.  Forward, there!  Heave the log!  Two seamen came.  The golden-hued
rolled in long slow billows of mighty bulk, and striving in the Pequod's
ropes and hawsers; chained down to ring-bolts on this cabin floor; he would
round, quivering and vibrating at either end; but at last it settled to its
sagged down in one long festoon; the tugging log was gone.  I crush the
said; and with fascinated eyes they awaited whatever magic might follow.  But
sailors, without some shudderings and evil portents.  Men, said he,
sails; the whole world boomed before the wind.  Muffled in the full morning
same perilous seas, gropes he not his way by mere dead reckoning of the
saw a falling phantom in the air; and looking down, a little tossed heap of
saw the crushed copper sight-tubes of the quadrant he had the day before
saw the sun's rearward place, and how the same yellow rays were blending with
scene.  At last, when the ship drew near to the outskirts, as it were, of
sea!  But suddenly reined back by some counter thought, he hurried towards
see how pale he looks --pale in the very buttons of his eyes --look --it wasn't
seems but uncertain twilight to me.  Will ye never have done, Carpenter, with
seen; though she then paused to lower her spare boats to pull all around her;
semi-intelligent faces, seen peeringly uprising from the water alongside.  In
several times, the mate still holding the rod as before.  Then going through
ship's stern unprovided with a buoy, when by certain strange signs and
ship, the Rachel, was descried, bearing directly down upon the Pequod, all her
sidelong-rushing sea.  The Manxman took the reel, and holding it high up, by
sideways impelled by unvarying trade winds, over waves monotonously mild;
silence, Ahab stood apart; and every time the tetering ship loweringly
sink, with all the crew!  Great God, where art thou?  Shall I?  shall I? --The
sir, said the frightened steersman.  Thou liest!  smiting him with his
sir; ship's-crier; ding, dong, ding!  Pip!  Pip!  Pip!  One hundred pounds
slate the course steered by the ship, as well as the presumed average rate of
slunk away.  In his fiery eyes of scorn and triumph, you then saw Ahab in all
so -- the coffin, I mean.  Dost thou hear me?  Rig it.  And shall I nail down
so long afloat this voyage, the log and line had but very seldom been in use.
so.  But Ahab is lord over the level load-stone
some moments stood, or sat, or leaned all transfixedly listening, like the
some small strange motions with it --whether indispensable to the magnetizing
sometimes go aloft in a transition state), whether it was thus with the man,
sounding-board; and what in all things makes the sounding-board is this
spars and rigging, the effect upon the needle has at times been still more
spars thickly clustering with men.  At the time the Pequod was making good
speak.  Sir, I mistrust it; this line looks far gone, long heat and wet
speak.  The yet levelled musket shook like a drunkard's arm against the panel;
speed through the water; but as the broad-winged windward stranger shot nigh
spirits.  Now, as it shortly turned out, what made this incident of the
spoiled thee?  Thou seem'st to hold.  Or, truer perhaps, life holds thee; not
steadily turning upon the crew, as the mate handed him the things he had
stealthily, and half sideways looking, he placed the loaded musket's end
stranger Captain immediately went on to reveal his object in boarding the
string of twisted oakum slowly unwinding from a large roll of it placed in the
subservient.  Where wert thou born?  In the little rocky Isle of Man, sir.
sudden, now; but squalls come sudden in hot latitudes.  I've heard that the
suffered to drag a whole ship's company down to doom with him? --Yes, it would
suffering man; and man, though idiotic, and knowing not what he does, yet
sufficient distance to gain the presumed place of the absent ones when last
sun-rise this man went from his hammock to his mast-head at the fore; and
superior, who'll ne'er confess.  What's that?  There now's a patched
superstitious feeling about seals, arising not only from their peculiar tones
superstitious old carpenters, now, would be tied up in the rigging, ere they
than are here.  come, then, to my cabin.  Lo!  ye believers in gods all
that accursed fish. --The very tube he pointed at me! --the very one; this one
that accursed sound?  I go below; let me not see that thing here when I return
that bubblingly leaps with light and heat.  Long maintaining an enchanted
that the stricken whale must have indefinitely run away with his pursuers, as
that!  Ding, dong, ding!  Who's seen Pip the coward?  There can be no hearts
that's the reason I never would work for lonely widow old women ashore, when
the Captain's sons among the number of the missing boat's crew; but among the
the Equatorial fishing-ground, and in the deep darkness that goes before the
the after bulwarks.  Rains and spray had damped it; the sun and wind had
the beginning at the end.  It's the old woman's tricks to be giving cobbling
the coat --it must have been the-- My boy, my own boy is among them.  For
the conclusion; not a cobbler's job, that's at an end in the middle, and at
the deck here.  Thou know'st what to say.
the deck in rolling reveries.  But chancing to slip with his ivory heel, he
the distance he saw the diminished dotted boat; and then a swift gleam of
the helm, huskily demanding how the ship was heading.  East-sou-east,
the lid, sir?  moving his hand as with a hammer.  aye.  And shall I caulk
the needles were exactly inverted, shouted out his orders for the ship's
the old Manx sailor standing behind them; I heard; all of ye heard their
the other side now.  I don't like this cobbling sort of business --I don't like
the projecting handle-ends of the spindle, round which the spool
the sail-maker's needles.  Quick!  Accessory, perhaps, to the impulse
the same with pitch; batten them down tight, and hang it with the snap-spring
the sea, under certain circumstances, seals have more than once been mistaken
the sea-chariot of the sun.  Ho, ho!  all ye nations before my prow, I bring
the seams, sir?  moving his hand as with a caulking-iron.  Aye.  And shall
the stranger captain himself, having stopped his vessel's way, was seen
the sun to ye!  Yoke on the further billows; hallo!  a tandem, I drive the
the vault.  Sir?  The hatchway?  oh!  So it does, sir, so it does.  Art
the vice-bench and the open hatchway; the Carpenter calking its seams; the
the wild thrilling sounds that were heard, were the voices of newly drowned
their congenial hearts from inflexible Ahab's.  For a space the old man walked
then, instantly, the reel began to whirl.  In turn, jerkingly raised and
there is now no telling; but, be that as it may, he had not been long at
there no other way?  no lawful way? --Make him a prisoner to be taken home?
there.  In the Isle of Man, hey?  Well, the other way, it's good.  Here's a
they had heard the night before.  But again the old Manxman said nay.  The
they peered in, for nothing but their own
thing for immortal souls to sieve through!  Who art thou, boy?  Bell-boy,
think. --I come to report a fair wind to him.  But how fair?  Fair for death
this event, at least as a portent; for they regarded it, not as a
this hand complies with my humor more genially than that boy. -- Middle aisle
this luckless child, and have abandoned him, ye creative libertines.  Here,
this way.  A touch, and Starbuck may survive to hug his wife and child
thou a silk-worm?  Dost thou spin thy own shroud out of thyself?  Look at thy
thou crazy loon, cried the Manxman, seizing him by the arm.  Away from the
thou it.  I hold the spool, sir.  But just as my captain says.  With these
thou not also the undertaker?  Aye, sir; I patched up this thing here as a
thought of that at the time.  Indeed, in some sort, they were not grieved at
thoughts, Starbuck said nothing, but quietly he issued all requisite orders;
thus marred or lost; and if the binnacle compasses be affected, the same
thus the first man of the pequod that mounted the mast to look out for the
time, to increase her distance from it.  But the rest of her crew being at
tinkerings; we are their betters.  I like to take in hand none but clean,
to Flask, that some one in that missing boat wore off that Captain's best
to her, the boastful sails all fell together as blank bladders that are
to pick up her three far to windward boats --ere going in quest of the fourth
told?  But I've forgotten.  Any way, I'll have me thirty separate,
tormented sleep, as if Starbuck's voice had caused the long dumb dream to
touchest my inmost centre, boy; thou art tied to me by cords woven of my
unaccompanied with hinted dark meanings.  He hollowly laughed, and thus
unappalled.  Yet the grey Manxman --the oldest mariner of all -- declared that
unexpected question; and would then have fain boarded the stranger, when
unimpressed; or if impressed, it was only with a certain magnetism shot into
unstaggering breeze abounded so, that sky and air seemed vast outbellying
upon the reel, not many hours after the magnet scene, and he remembered how
upright man; but out of Starbuck's heart, at that instant when he saw the
virgin, fair-and-square mathematical jobs, something that regularly begins
warped it; all the elements had combined to rot a thing that hung so idly.
water.  A hatchet!  a hatchet!  cut it off -- we haul in no cowards here.
way --come, oakum; quick.  Here we go again.  This wooden mallet is the cork,
whale-boat adrift?  Throttling his joy, Ahab negatively answered this
whale-boat.  pip's missing.  let's see now if ye haven't fished him up here,
whatever that might prove to be; therefore, they were going to leave the
when its lightning strikes a would-be murderer in his bed, tindering sheets
whether it was that he was not yet half waked from his sleep (for sailors
which is sucked in --by what?  Up with the reel!  The dead, blind wall butts
white bubbles in the blue of the sea.  The life-buoy --a long slender cask --was
white, for I will not let this go.
who thus far had but icily received his petition.  For eight-and-forty hours
wholly neglect to heave the log; though at the same time, and frequently more
whose object might have been to revive the spirits of his crew by a stroke of
wind has gone down and shifted, sir; the fore and main topsails are reefed
with the oblique energy of the wind, was now almost dipping into the creamy,
would do the job.  But I'm made of knotty Aroostook hemlock; I don't budge.
would have no lightning-rods?  But shall this crazed old man be tamely
yet.  Mr. Starbuck--a lance without a pole; a top-maul, and the smallest of
