




















































































































































































































































     
                                  SILVER BLAZE
                               Arthur Conan Doyle
     "'Can you tell me where I am?' he asked. 'I had almost made up my
     "'Good-evening,' said he, looking through the window. 'I wanted to
     "'It's business that may put something into your pocket,' said the
     "'Oh, indeed! What a stroke of luck!' he cried. 'I understand that a
     "'So, you're one of those damned touts!' cried the lad. 'I'll show
     "'What business have you here?' asked the lad.
     "'You are close to the King's Pyland training-stables,' said she.
     "A child would know Silver Blaze, with his white forehead and his
     "A long shot, Watson; a very long shot," said he, pinching my arm.
     "A more perfect compound of the bully, coward, and sneak than Master
     "A piece of matting has been laid here at the side, and we have all
     "About a quarter of a mile from the stables John Straker's overcoat
     "Ah, it bolted, and was cared for by one of your neighbors. We must
     "Ah, that quite settles it," said Holmes. And with an apology he
     "All six there? Then my horse is running," cried the Colonel in great
     "And nothing to connect this man Simpson with the interests of the
     "And of course this is all quite a minor point compared to the
     "And they did so. You cannot have forgotten the singular knife which
     "And yet," said I, "even now I fail to understand what the theory of
     "And you will devote yourself to that?"
     "At least I have got a grip of the essential facts of the case. I
     "At least you have his assurance that your horse will run," said I.
     "Because I made a blunder, my dear Watson--which is, I am afraid, a
     "Before deciding that question I had grasped the significance of the
     "Bless you, sir, if any one is about he will be, for he is always the
     "But are you not afraid to leave the horse in his power now, since he
     "But his stables had been searched?"
     "Capital! An excellent start!" he cried suddenly. "There they are,
     "Certainly not without your permission."
     "Certainly not," cried Holmes, with decision. "I should let the name
     "Certainly, Colonel, you shall know everything. Let us all go round
     "Colonel Ross did not impress me as a man who would be likely to show
     "Dear me! Why, I could have sworn to it. You wore a costume of
     "Edith Baxter was within thirty yards of the stables, when a man
     "Exceedingly so."
     "Excellent, Watson, excellent!" murmured my companion. "The
     "Excellent."
     "Excuse me," said he, turning to Colonel Ross, who had looked at him
     "Five to four against Silver Blaze!" roared the ring. "Five to four
     "From that time on all was plain. Straker had led out the horse to a
     "Go! Where to?"
     "Gregory, let me recommend to your attention this singular epidemic
     "Have there been any fresh developments?" asked Holmes.
     "Have you got them? Have you found them?" she panted.
     "Have you noticed anything amiss with them of late?"
     "He acknowledges that it is his, and declares that he had lost it.
     "He has been in your service some years, Colonel Ross?"
     "He has the horse, then?"
     "He is here."
     "He says that it was a ten-pound note. One was found in his purse.
     "He tried to bluster out of it, but I described to him so exactly
     "Here! Where?"
     "How about Straker's knife?"
     "How is the betting?"
     "Hum!" said Holmes. "Somebody knows something, that is clear."
     "Hunter waited until his fellow-grooms had returned, when he sent a
     "I am afraid that there are no more tracks," said the Inspector. "I
     "I am afraid that whatever theory we state has very grave objections
     "I am afraid, Watson, that I shall have to go," said Holmes, as we
     "I am delighted that you have come down, Mr. Holmes," said the
     "I am sorry to say that we have made very little progress," said the
     "I cannot think how I came to overlook it," said the Inspector, with
     "I confess," said he, "that any theories which I had formed from the
     "I confess," said the Colonel, "that even now I cannot see how it
     "I do, sir."
     "I found him in the hands of a faker, and took the liberty of running
     "I have already said that he must have gone to King's Pyland or to
     "I have always found him an excellent servant."
     "I have been blind!" cried the Colonel. "Of course that was why he
     "I have done so," said Holmes quietly.
     "I have not observed the quarter-mile posts," said I.
     "I have seen nothing of my horse," said he.
     "I have seen what the Telegraph and the Chronicle have to say."
     "I have the things themselves in the sitting-room, if you would care
     "I must say that I am rather disappointed in our London consultant,"
     "I never had such a dress, sir," answered the lady.
     "I only wished to ask a question," said Holmes, with his finger and
     "I presume that you made an inventory of what he had in this pockets
     "I should be most happy to go down with you if I should not be in the
     "I should be very glad." We all filed into the front room and sat
     "I suppose that you would know him when you saw him?" asked Holmes.
     "I think that I should prefer to stay here a little and go into one
     "I thought it not unlikely."
     "I thought so. A very delicate blade devised for very delicate work.
     "I was already convinced, or almost convinced, that John Straker went
     "I've no time to talk to every gadabout. We want no stranger here. Be
     "In my company at the present moment."
     "In that case the overcoat was not blown against the furze-bush, but
     "In this bag I have one of the boots which Straker wore, one of
     "Indeed!" said Holmes, rising. "I should not have the impertinence to
     "Inspector Gregory, to whom the case has been committed, is an
     "Is in not possible," I suggested, "that the incised wound upon
     "Is there any point to which you would wish to draw my attention?"
     "It is certainly possible."
     "It is more than possible; it is probable," said Holmes. "In that
     "It is one of those cases where the art of the reasoner should be
     "It is what we call a cataract knife," said I.
     "It was invisible, buried in the mud. I only saw it because I was
     "It was the first link in my chain of reasoning. Powdered opium is by
     "It's a lie!" he shouted, "an infernal lie!"
     "It's my race, anyhow," gasped the Colonel, passing his hand over his
     "It's this way, Watson," said he at last. "We may leave the question
     "Madam Derbyshire had somewhat expensive tastes," remarked Holmes,
     "Mrs. Straker awoke at seven in the morning, to find that her husband
     "My dear Gregory, you anticipate all my wants. If I might ask you to
     "My dear Inspector, you surpass yourself!" Holmes took the bag, and,
     "My dear Watson, you would confer a great favour upon me by coming.
     "My dear fellow, he will guard it as the apple of his eye. He knows
     "My dear sir, you have done wonders. The horse looks very fit and
     "My final shot was, I confess a very long one. It struck me that so
     "My friend Dr. Watson made that suggestion to me as we came down. If
     "My friend and I return to town by the night-express," said Holmes.
     "No, Mrs. Straker. But Mr. Holmes here has come from London to help
     "No, sir; you are mistaken."
     "None; but very heavy rain."
     "Nor have I. But the telegraph posts upon this line are sixty yards
     "Nothing at all."
     "Now, gentlemen," said he, "I am quite ready for Tavistock."
     "Oh no, there shall be no mistake. It shall be there. Should I change
     "Oh, and old horse-faker like him has many a dodge."
     "Oh, come in if you wish to."
     "Oh, you can trust me, you can trust me!"
     "On that evening the horses had been exercised and watered as usual,
     "On the contrary, we both go back to London by the night train."
     "One for you, Watson," said Holmes, when I pointed it out. "You have
     "One moment," I asked. "Did the stable-boy, when he ran out with the
     "Only five have passed. This must be he."
     "Perhaps you would prefer at once to go on to the scene of the crime,
     "Quite so. It was alone before. Hullo, what is this?"
     "See the value of imagination," said Holmes. "It is the one quality
     "She was frightened by the earnestness of his manner, and ran past
     "Silver Blaze," said he, "is from the Somomy stock, and holds as
     "So you despair of arresting the murderer of poor Straker," said he.
     "Surely I met you in Plymouth at a garden-party some little time ago,
     "Ten minutes' talk with you, my good sir," said Holmes in the
     "That was the curious incident," remarked Sherlock Holmes.
     "That's not my horse," cried the owner. "That beast has not a white
     "The dog did nothing in the night-time."
     "The fact was, of course, appreciated at King's Pyland, where the
     "The horse was alone before," I cried.
     "The horse!" cried both the Colonel and myself.
     "The matter does not rest with Colonel Ross. I follow my own methods,
     "The moor is being scoured for these gypsies. I have also examined
     "The net is drawn pretty close round Fitzroy Simpson," he remarked,
     "The tip was guarded by a disk of cork which we found beside his
     "The two lads who slept in the chaff-cutting loft above the
     "There are several points on which I should like your advice, and
     "There are the numbers up," I cried. "They are all six there."
     "There is another training-stable quite close, I understand?"
     "There must be no mistake," said Holmes, looking round at him. The
     "There was no wind that night, I understand," said Holmes.
     "This is a very singular knife," said Holmes, lifting it up and
     "Those are the main facts of the case, stripped of all surmise, and
     "Three of them are receipted hay-dealers' accounts. One of them is a
     "To Dartmoor; to King's Pyland."
     "To the curious incident of the dog in the night-time."
     "Tuesday evening!" I exclaimed. "And this is Thursday morning. Why
     "Undoubtedly. But in examining his belongings I was fortunate enough
     "Undoubtedly. He has neither a knife nor any sign of a wound. The
     "Very good. Shall we argue about it here in public or talk it over in
     "Very possible. How about these papers?"
     "Villain! Scoundrel!" cried the Colonel.
     "We are going well," said he, looking out the window and glancing at
     "We don't want any loiterers about here," said he.
     "We have found traces which show that a party of gypsies encamped on
     "We have had a charming little breath of your beautiful Dartmoor
     "We have here the explanation of why John Straker wished to take the
     "We have quite come to the conclusion that he wounded himself in his
     "We scratched our other one, and put all hopes on your word," said
     "Well, sir, not of much account; but three of them have gone lame,
     "Well, that is the curious part of it. You could have got fifteen to
     "Well, well, let us see how he gets on," said my friend,
     "What does he say about the cravat?"
     "What! You expected to find it?"
     "What's this, Dawson!" he cried. "No gossiping! Go about your
     "When I returned to London I called upon the milliner, who had
     "Where is he, then?"
     "Wonderful!" cried the Colonel. "Wonderful! You might have been
     "Yes, I have his assurance," said the Colonel, with a shrug of his
     "Yes, I think I can. Well, you shall hear from me to-morrow." He
     "Yes, and that is a factor which we must certainly not neglect. As
     "Yes, it was laid across the bush."
     "Yes, the horse. And it may lessen his guilt if I say that it was
     "Yes; he lies upstairs. The inquest is to-morrow."
     "You consider that to be important?" he asked.
     "You fill me with interest, I perceive that the ground has been
     "You have a few sheep in the paddock," he said. "Who attends to
     "You have explained all but one thing," cried the Colonel. "Where was
     "You have formed a theory, then?"
     "You take my breath away!"
     "Your instructions will be done. It shall all be done," said he.
     "and I believe myself that he is our man. At the same time I
     ----------
     1. Mr. Heath Newton's The Negro. Red cap. Cinnamon jacket.
     2. Colonel Wardlaw's Pugilist. Pink cap. Blue and black jacket.
     3. Lord Backwater's Desborough. Yellow cap and sleeves.
     4. Colonel Ross's Silver Blaze. Black cap. Red jacket.
     5. Duke of Balmoral's Iris. Yellow and black stripes.
     6. Lord Singleford's Rasper. Purple cap. Black sleeves.
     A minute later we were all seated in a comfortable landau, and were
     A strange thing for a man to carry with him upon a rough expedition,
     An examination of his betting-book shows that bets to the amount of
     And I think that your time will not be misspent, for there are points
     And so it happened that an hour or so later I found myself in the
     As I spoke a powerful bay horse swept out from the weighting
     As Sherlock Holmes replaced the half-crown which he had drawn from
     As a man of the world, Colonel, you know that men do not carry other
     As the drag drew up in the enclosure near the grand stand I glanced
     As we emerged from the sitting-room a woman, who had been waiting in
     As we stepped into the carriage one of the stable-lads held the door
     Bayard. Let me have the straight tip and you won't be a loser. Is it
     Blaze. For what purpose? For a dishonest one, obviously, or why
     But a new element has been introduced into the case which may account
     But your other difficulties are not so formidable as they seem. He is
     Colonel Ross still wore an expression which showed the poor opinion
     Colonel Ross, his fortunate owner. Up to the time of the catastrophe
     Colonel Ross, who had shown some signs of impatience at my
     Colonel's training-stable is situated. Every precaution was taken to
     Colonel. "The Inspector here has done all that could possibly be
     Dartmoor training-stables upon the Monday night, and the means by
     Dartmoor. Two gentlemen were awaiting us in the station--the one a
     Derbyshire was a friend of her husband's and that occasionally his
     Derbyshire, who had a very dashing wife, with a strong partiality for
     Desborough, their horse, was second in the betting, they had an
     Fitzroy Simpson's shoes, and a cast horseshoe of Silver Blaze."
     Fitzroy Simpson. He was a man of excellent birth and education, who
     Four days later Holmes and I were again in the train, bound for
     From our drag we had a superb view as they came up the straight. The
     Gregory was formulating his theory, which was almost exactly what
     He started violently and flushed to the temples.
     He took the boots from the bag, and compared the impressions of each
     He turned back with the Inspector, while Holmes and I walked slowly
     His bridle is missing, so that Simpson must have put this on. Then,
     His bullying, overbearing manner was all gone too, and he cringed
     Holmes and the trainer reappeared. Never have I seen such a change as
     Holmes had foretold in the train.
     Holmes leaned back in the carriage, and the conversation ceased. A
     Holmes leaned forward and whispered something in the trainer's ear.
     Holmes pricked up his ears.
     Holmes shook his head. "A clever counsel would tear it all to rags,"
     Holmes shrugged his shoulders. "There are certainly grave
     Holmes smiled. "I shall not keep you more than a few minutes,
     Holmes thought a little and then burst out laughing. "No, don't,"
     Holmes threw in an occasional question or interjection. Colonel Ross
     Holmes, with characteristic clearness, had laid before me. Though
     Holmes?"
     How he went out to it, and his astonishment at recognizing, from the
     I could see that Holmes was extremely pleased, for he chuckled and
     I had listened with the greatest interest to the statement which
     I lay back against the cushions, puffing at my cigar, while Holmes,
     I stand to win a little on this next race, I shall defer a lengthy
     I was about to make some reply in defence of my friend when he
     I was in the carriage, just as we reached the trainer's house, that
     I was not surprised. Indeed, my only wonder was that he had not
     I was thunderstruck by my friend's words. We had only been a few
     I was to his ways, that his hand was upon a clue, though I could not
     I was watching him. Of course you observed the peculiarly square toes
     Inspector Gregory, who is looking after the case, inviting my
     Inspector's face that his attention had been keenly aroused.
     Inspector's sleeve. Her face was haggard and thin and eager, stamped
     Inspector. "We have an open carriage outside, and as you would no
     It was absolutely necessary to do it in the open air."
     It was already opened, and Hunter was seated at the small table
     It was evening before we reached the little town of Tavistock, which
     It was twenty minutes, and the reds had all faded into grays before
     Let us take that as a working hypothesis and see what it leads us to.
     Mapleton stables?"
     Mapleton, and the long, sloping plain in front of us was tinged with
     Mapleton. He is not at King's Pyland. Therefore he is at Mapleton.
     Monday night within a mile of the spot where the murder took place.
     Monday night."
     Mr. Holmes?" said Gregory.
     Mrs. Straker?" said Holmes.
     My eyes fell upon the sheep, and I asked a question which, rather to
     Not a word more could I draw from him until we were back at the
     Obviously the midnight visitor was some one whom the dog knew well.
     On Tuesday they were gone. Now, presuming that there was some
     On being arrested he volunteered the statement that he had come down
     One of these lads sat up each night in the stable, while the others
     Pyland horses, and also about Desborough, the second favorite, which
     Pyland. Holmes whistled, and we both followed along after it. His
     Ross, that it is possible to make a slight nick upon the tendons of a
     See http://sherlock-holm.es for an electronic form of this text and
     Sherlock Holmes laughed. "I assure you that I have not associated you
     Silas Brown I have seldom met with," remarked Holmes as we trudged
     Silver Blaze as ever."
     Straker may have been caused by his own knife in the convulsive
     Straker used in self-defence, and then the thief either led the horse
     Straker. When, however, another morning had come, and I found that
     Straker?"
     The Colonel and I stared at him in amazement. "You have got him!
     The Colonel bowed. "I am very glad to have had your opinion, sir,"
     The Colonel flushed angrily. "I quite recognize that I am under
     The Colonel was very angry. "I have been on the turf for twenty
     The Inspector opened his eyes, and the Colonel's lip curled in a
     The Inspector took one from an envelope and handed it to him.
     The double track turned sharp off and took the direction of King's
     The horse is a very gregarious creature. If left to himself his
     There you have it all in a nutshell, Watson, and if you can give me
     Therefore Simpson becomes eliminated from the case, and our attention
     These people always clear out when they hear of trouble, for they do
     This part of the moor, as the Inspector remarked, is very hard and
     This text comes from the collection's version 3.1.
     This text is provided to you "as-is" without any warranty. No
     This text was formatted from various free ASCII and HTML variants.
     Watson," said he. "Now, Mr. Brown, I am quite at your disposal."
     We crossed the marshy bottom and passed over a quarter of a mile of
     We had been walking briskly during this conversation, and a few more
     We had not to go far. It ended at the paving of asphalt which led up
     We had the corner of a Pullman car to ourselves that evening as we
     Wessex Plate [it ran] 50 sovs. each h ft with 1000 sovs. added, for
     What was it here? I hoped that the contents of his pockets might help
     Where is he, then?"
     Winchester to see the race for the Wessex Cup. Colonel Ross met us by
     You must know, with your wide experience of turf matters, Colonel
     a bad third.
     a fact that at the weights Bayard could give the other a hundred
     a few papers, and an ivory-handled knife with a very delicate,
     a few roaming gypsies. Such was the general situation last Monday
     a whole day my companion had rambled about the room with his chin
     about the case which promise to make it an absolutely unique one. We
     access to that dish without the maid seeing them?
     account for thirty-seven pounds fifteen made out by Madame Lesurier,
     across the moor. The sun was beginning to sink behind the stables of
     across the open moor.
     across the stable to unloose the dog. The girl fled away to the
     additional information about it.
     after the dish was set aside for the stable-boy, for the others had
     against Silver Blaze! Five to fifteen against Desborough! Five to
     against the window, but in spite of her entreaties he pulled on his
     agents, and then preventing them from winning by fraud. Sometimes it
     agitation. "But I don't see him. My colors have not passed."
     air."
     all alighted. I was marvelling in my own mind how I could possibly
     along at my companion's side like a dog with its master.
     along together.
     already been mixed up in this extraordinary case, which was the one
     among the sheep. Drive on, coachman!"
     an expression of annoyance.
     and a suppressed excitement in his manner which convinced me, used as
     and for seven as trainer, and has always shown himself to be a
     and have a look at the horse together. Here he is," he continued, as
     and he stood pointing with a look of triumph upon his face. A man's
     and laid a small heap of things before us. There was a box of vestas,
     and saw to my surprise the same tracks coming back again in the
     and set off for the stables. The door was open; inside, huddled
     and tell as much or as little as I choose. That is the advantage of
     and the Colonel's horse, coming away with a rush, passed the post a
     and the stables were locked up at nine o'clock. Two of the lads
     and there is nothing to connect him with the affair."
     and we may now go down to the scene of the crime."
     any light I shall be infinitely obliged to you."
     apart, and the calculation is a simple one. I presume that you have
     apologies for having doubted your ability. You have done me a great
     appeared out of the darkness and called to her to stop. As he stepped
     appointment outside the station, and we drove in his drag to the
     appreciable quantity of powdered opium, while the people at the house
     appreciated their relative importance, nor their connection to each
     as might, by repeated blows, have inflicted the terrible injuries to
     astute a man as Straker would not undertake this delicate
     at the card to see the entries.
     at the time of his death, Inspector?"
     attempt to deny that he had acted as described upon the evening
     be happy to give you any other details which might interest you."
     been found in his possession? What chemist sold him the powdered
     been leading the horse to them when he was overtaken, and may they
     before a jury."
     before, but declared that he had no sinister designs, and had simply
     begged him to remain at home, as she could hear the rain pattering
     behind us before he thrust the last one of them under the seat, and
     being unofficial. I don't know whether you observed it, Watson, but
     belongs to Lord Backwater, and is managed by Silas Brown. In every
     beyond the arrest of young Fitzroy Simpson nothing had been done, I
     black and red of the Colonel.
     body," said the Inspector. "His wife tells us that the knife had lain
     bottom of the fatal hollow that he had been there at the time of the
     bowl-shaped depression in the moor, and at the bottom of this was
     brambles caught the evening light. But the glories of the landscape
     brilliant a record as his famous ancestor. He is now in his fifth
     bringing with you your very excellent field-glass."
     broke away during or after the tragedy, where could he have gone to?
     built by a Tavistock contractor for the use of invalids and others
     business! And you, what the devil do you want here?"
     but never to foul play."
     by some very sharp instrument. It was clear, however, that Straker
     calling there with Straker's photograph I could easily dispose of the
     carried a lantern with her, as it was very dark and the path ran
     case one of the main points in favor of the accused disappears."
     centers upon Straker and his wife, the only two people who could have
     chosen curried mutton for supper that night. The opium was added
     closed hand.
     co-operation if I do not show you the position from which we start."
     comfortably off. The country round is very lonely, but about half a
     coming round the curve!"
     companion's narrative of the events which had occurred at the
     companion's quiet and systematic method of work, glanced at his
     concealed their true import. I went to Devonshire with the conviction
     concealed, especially in so sparsely inhabited a place as the north
     cooperation.
     corner of a first-class carriage flying along en route for Exeter,
     corner. Yet, silent as he was, I knew perfectly well what it was over
     course beyond the town. His face was grave, and his manner was cold
     cravat, he turned very pale, and was utterly unable to account for
     descending into the hollow, he pushed the matting into a more central
     detail he gave it up and thought only of saving his own skin."
     didn't you go down yesterday?"
     difficulties in the way," said he. "I have every hope, however, that
     difficulty is to detach the framework of fact--of absolute undeniable
     direction."
     disappearance of Silver Blaze?"
     distant, is the larger training establishment of Mapleton, which
     do it again after what you say. But I should like to take a little
     dog, leave the door unlocked behind him?"
     done in self-defence, and that John Straker was a man who was
     door before he left it. The window, I may add, was not large enough
     doubt like to see the place before the light fails, we might talk it
     dove-colored silk with ostrich-feather trimming."
     down to the stables in the dead of the night and took out Silver
     dropped his cravat, and Straker had picked it up--with some idea,
     dry, hard turf. Again the ground sloped, and again we came on the
     dry. But it falls away towards Mapleton, and you can see from here
     ear-flapped travelling-cap, dipped rapidly into the bundle of fresh
     earth in front of him, and the shoe which he took from his pocket
     enclosure and cantered past us, bearing on its back the well-known
     enough to do to settle our own. I at once concluded that Straker was
     entered the room again.
     entirely unworthy of your confidence. But there goes the bell, and as
     especially as it would not shut in his pocket."
     especially as to whether we do not owe it to the public to remove our
     establishment was a small one, containing only four horses in all.
     evening by the stranger who had visited the stables. Hunter, on
     every stable and out-house in Tavistock, and for a radius of ten
     evidence against him is certainly very strong. He had a great
     exactly fitted the impression.
     exactly the medium which would disguise this taste. By no possible
     examining it minutely. "I presume, as I see blood-stains upon it,
     excited at hearing the account, although he does not seem to have
     exercise, but on ascending the knoll near the house, from which all
     expensive dresses. I have no doubt that this woman had plunged him
     expensive tastes. Liberal as you are with your servants, one can
     explanation until a more fitting time."
     explanations are more improbable still. However, I shall very quickly
     extremely competent officer. Were he but gifted with imagination he
     eyes were on the trail, but I happened to look a little to one side,
     eyes. "I confess that I can make neither head nor tail of it. Don't
     fact--from the embellishments of theorists and reporters. Then,
     fading ferns, stretched away to the sky-line, broken only by the
     fall."
     felt that it was time for me to take action. Yet in some ways I feel
     few minutes later our driver pulled up at a neat little red-brick
     finding out what has become of the horse. Now, supposing that he
     finished your walk, and we can drive together into Tavistock."
     first stirring. But here he is, sir, to answer your questions for
     five thousand pounds had been registered by him against the favorite.
     fixed upon the sky in front of him, entirely absorbed in his own
     followed the Inspector outside. A short walk across the moor took us
     for a man to get through.
     for his leading the horse from the stable."
     for his tracks."
     for luck."
     forehead. He had already, in spite of the rain, taken off his
     forward and touched the lad upon the sleeve.
     found in the dead man's hand. I really think we have enough to go
     found the dead body of the unfortunate trainer. His head had been
     four and five year olds. Second, £300. Third, £200. New course (one
     four on the field!"
     fresh evidence. The tragedy has been so uncommon, so complete and of
     from a plethora of surmise, conjecture, and hypothesis. The
     from the stables. He has no children, keeps one maid-servant, and is
     front. Before they reached us, however, Desborough's bolt was shot,
     glancing down the account. "Twenty-two guineas is rather heavy for a
     glossy neck of the thoroughbred.
     go further into the matter upon our journey. You would oblige me by
     gold, deepening into rich, ruddy browns where the faded ferns and
     good six lengths before its rival, the Duke of Balmoral's Iris making
     guard the favorite. The trainer, John Straker, is a retired jockey
     had been brought about in Silas Brown in that short time. His face
     had been found, and that his abductor was the murderer of John
     had defended himself vigorously against his assailants, for in his
     had not yet returned. She dressed herself hastily, called the maid,
     had squandered a fortune upon the turf, and who lived now by doing a
     hair upon its body. What is this that you have done, Mr. Holmes?"
     half burned, which was so coated with mud that it looked at first
     hands shook until the hunting-crop wagged like a branch in the wind.
     hardly expect that they can buy twenty-guinea walking dresses for
     harness-room were quickly aroused. They had heard nothing during the
     has every interest in injuring it?"
     have a word with you.' The girl has sworn that as he spoke she
     have an amnesty in that direction, I think. This is Clapham Junction,
     have examined the ground very carefully for a hundred yards in each
     have just said as either a very bad joke or an insult."
     have overlooked so obvious a clue."
     have, I think, just time to catch our train at Paddington, and I will
     having established ourselves upon this sound basis, it is our duty to
     having left the door open behind him, he was leading the horse away
     having served its purpose, would be hurled away. The horse may be at
     he had put his money. Then I described how his first impulse had been
     he was the first favorite for the Wessex Cup, the betting being three
     heavy stick without receiving any injury from the small knife which
     held out to him, and we set off for King's Pyland.
     helps us."
     her, I made a note of the milliner's address, and felt that by
     him just as he was sent over."
     him to the window through which she was accustomed to hand the meals.
     him. Surely that is clear."
     him?'
     himself. No, sir, no; it is as much as my place is worth to let him
     his hand to me. The track of a horse was plainly outlined in the soft
     his hands on at the moment."
     his intention of setting out for the scene of the drama it was only
     his leg in spirits of wine, and you will find that he is the same old
     his pocket, a fierce-looking elderly man strode out from the gate
     his watch. "Our rate at present is fifty-three and a half miles an
     hollow where his light would be invisible. Simpson in his flight had
     horse out on to the moor. So spirited a creature would have certainly
     horse's ham, and to do it subcutaneously, so as to leave absolutely
     horse's name from the entries for the Cup."
     horse, and such a horse as this? What is his own explanation as to
     horse, he had not barked enough to arouse the two lads in the loft.
     horse, with the intention, apparently, of kidnapping him altogether.
     hour."
     hours in Devonshire, and that he should give up an investigation
     house, but as she ran she looked back and saw that the stranger was
     how he could hide the horse until the race was over, and how he had
     if I am not mistaken, and we shall be in Victoria in less than ten
     imagine where he had found it.
     immediately behind you." He stepped past and laid his hand upon the
     imperturbably. For a few minutes he gazed through my field-glass.
     importance of the point struck me so forcibly that I sent a special
     in some surprise. "I was day-dreaming." There was a gleam in his eyes
     in the extreme.
     in the impressions, and that his own boots exactly corresponded to
     in the storm, he was armed with a heavy stick, and his cravat was
     inclined now to have a little amusement at his expense. Say nothing
     indications there, had they not been overlaid by other details which
     inflexible blade marked Weiss & Co., London.
     inside. She had begun to tell him of what had happened, when the
     instinct of animals feeling that some mischief was intended, had
     instincts would have been either to return to King's Pyland or go
     intended to walk down to the stables to see that all was well. She
     interest in preventing Silver Blaze from being there at the fall of
     interest in the disappearance of the favorite. He lies under
     interest in the disappearance of the favorite. Silas Brown, the
     into the circle of yellow light thrown by the lantern she saw that he
     is a pulling jockey. Sometimes it is some surer and subtler means.
     it appears to the police, and improbable as it is, all other
     it first or not?"
     its presence in the hand of the murdered man. His wet clothing showed
     jockey in readiness. Might I ask for a photograph of Mr. John
     kitchen, while the third, Ned Hunter, remained on guard. At a few
     knife gashed his thigh. Do I make it clear?"
     knife which is used for the most delicate operations known in
     knowing it, and having satisfied myself that it had never reached
     large mackintosh and left the house.
     large reward has been offered, and all the gypsies of Dartmoor are on
     lashed out, and the steel shoe had struck Straker full on the
     leading a double life, and keeping a second establishment. The nature
     leaned back with his arms folded and his hat tilted over his eyes,
     leaning forward, with his long, thin forefinger checking off the
     leaning through the window. A minute later, however, when Hunter
     led it back and concealed it at Mapleton. When I told him every
     letter of instructions from Colonel Ross. This other is a milliner's
     letters were addressed here."
     lies, like the boss of a shield, in the middle of the huge circle of
     like a little chip of wood.
     little quiet and genteel book-making in the sporting clubs of London.
     looked into this matter of the murder of John Straker and the
     looking for it."
     master, Mr. Silas Brown, if I were to call at five o'clock to-morrow
     may remember that I was distrait, and remained sitting after you had
     me to form a conclusion.
     message to the trainer and told him what had occurred. Straker was
     might rise to great heights in his profession. On his arrival he
     mile and five furlongs).
     mile to the north there is a small cluster of villas which have been
     miles."
     mind to sleep on the moor, when I saw the light of your lantern.'
     minutes after nine the maid, Edith Baxter, carried down to the
     minutes brought us to the hollow in question. At Holmes' request I
     minutes. If you care to smoke a cigar in our rooms, Colonel, I shall
     missing horse, there were abundant proofs in the mud which lay at the
     monstrous a coincidence to suppose that he happened to come along
     more common occurrence than any one would think who only knew me
     morning?"
     most of the facts were familiar to me, I had not sufficiently
     mottled off-foreleg."
     much mercy in any case."
     must have crossed that, and there is the point where we should look
     mutton, and so deprived the stables of their watchman. As to the
     my questions or remarks. Fresh editions of every paper had been sent
     my surprise, showed that my surmise was correct.
     mythical Derbyshire.
     neat and dapper, in a frock-coat and gaiters, with trim little
     needed the candle, and struck the match."
     new development may upset it."
     newspaper reports were entirely erroneous. And yet there were
     night when the catastrophe occurred.
     night, for they are both sound sleepers. Hunter was obviously under
     no friend to poor Straker. We have, however, examined the stables,
     no means tasteless. The flavor is not disagreeable, but it is
     no trace. A horse so treated would develop a slight lameness, which
     not a stranger to the district. He has twice lodged at Tavistock in
     not have him now?"
     not wish to be pestered by the police. They could not hope to sell
     noticed the corner of the little paper packet protruding from his
     obligations to you, Mr. Holmes," said he, "but I must regard what you
     obtained a duplicate key, opened the stable door and took out the
     obvious, therefore, that there were many people who had the strongest
     of Bond Street, to William Derbyshire. Mrs. Straker tells us that
     of Dartmoor. From hour to hour yesterday I expected to hear that he
     of great sums of money by laying against their own horses, through
     of him, he was left to sleep it off while the two lads and the two
     of him. "Hullo!" said he, suddenly. "What's this?" It was a wax vesta
     of the bill showed that there was a lady in the case, and one who had
     of the hollow, and crawled about among the ferns and bushes.
     of the missing favorite, but they perceived something which warned
     of them with marks upon the ground. Then he clambered up to the rim
     of who killed John Straker for the instant, and confine ourselves to
     off, across a paddock, lay a long gray-tiled out-building. In every
     off, or you may find a dog at your heels."
     offered me his cigar-case.
     on the thigh, where there was a long, clean cut, inflicted evidently
     on to some secret hiding-place, or else it may have bolted during the
     once more quite close to Mapleton. It was Holmes who saw them first,
     one of those villas which I have mentioned. His name, it appears, was
     one yesterday, but the price has become shorter and shorter, until
     open for us. A sudden idea seemed to occur to Holmes, for he leaned
     opium? Above all, where could he, a stranger to the district, hide a
     opposite direction.
     or two questions of detail. Straker was brought back here, I
     other direction the low curves of the moor, bronze-colored from the
     other direction the moor is a complete wilderness, inhabited only by
     other winced as he read the menace in his eyes.
     other.
     other. 'You've two horses in for the Wessex Cup--Silver Blaze and
     others. The Simpson incident had shown me that a dog was kept in the
     out from them.
     over as we drive."
     over head and ears in debt, and so led him into this miserable plot."
     over the moor, when he was either met or overtaken by the trainer. A
     over to Mapleton. Why should he run wild upon the moor? He would
     overcoat in order to do his delicate task, and so, as he fell, his
     ownership of the cravat. He was equally certain that the same
     pallor of his face and by the nervousness of his manner. His age, she
     papers which he had procured at Paddington. We had left Reading far
     partook of the same dish on the same night without any ill effect.
     penetrating light blue eyes; the other a small, alert person, very
     people's bills about in their pockets. We have most of us quite
     perceptible. Were it mixed with any ordinary dish the eater would
     perhaps, that he might use it in securing the horse's leg. Once in
     piece of white paper folded up out of his waistcoat pocket. 'See that
     pipe with the strongest black tobacco, and absolutely deaf to any of
     placed there."
     points upon the palm of his left hand, gave me a sketch of the events
     police have done in the matter.
     poor Straker and in recovering my horse."
     position. Then stretching himself upon his face and leaning his chin
     possible that the most remarkable horse in England could long remain
     presume?"
     promptly found and arrested the man upon whom suspicion naturally
     put in his power the only horse which could beat the one upon which
     put to the maid."
     question of who killed John Straker."
     quite realized its true significance. It left him, however, vaguely
     racing public, and has never yet disappointed them, so that even at
     rapidly making his name in the English detective service.
     rattling through the quaint old Devonshire city. Inspector Gregory
     really see how we can get much further than our present position."
     recognize that the evidence is purely circumstantial, and that some
     recognized Straker as an excellent customer of the name of
     recovering from his stupor, was also quite positive as to the
     rested. There was little difficulty in finding him, for he inhabited
     right hand he held a small knife, which was clotted with blood up to
     room. It was a poor weapon, but perhaps the best that he could lay
     round the central table while the Inspector unlocked a square tin box
     roused the soundest of sleepers when it felt the prick of the knife.
     row naturally ensued. Simpson beat out the trainer's brains with his
     rubbed his hands together.
     rushed out with the hound he was gone, and though he ran all round
     said Colonel Ross, bluntly, as my friend left the room. "I do not see
     said he. "Why should he take the horse out of the stable? If he
     said he. "You will find us at poor Straker's house when you have
     said he; "I shall write to you about it. No tricks, now, or--"
     sat down together to our breakfast one morning.
     saved us a long walk, which would have brought us back on our own
     seal-skin with half an ounce of long-cut Cavendish, a silver watch
     see me touch your money. Afterwards, if you like."
     see what inferences may be drawn and what are the special points upon
     served which would disguise the flavor. That is unthinkable.
     service by recovering my horse. You would do me a greater still if
     shall enumerate them to you, for nothing clears up a case so much as
     shattered by a savage blow from some heavy weapon, and he was wounded
     should he drug his own stable-boy? And yet I was at a loss to know
     shoulders. "I should prefer to have the horse."
     side-whiskers and an eye-glass. The latter was Colonel Ross, the
     silence of the dog, for one true inference invariably suggests
     single costume. However there appears to be nothing more to learn,
     singular disappearance of the favorite for the Wessex Cup, and the
     sir."
     six horses were so close together that a carpet could have covered
     sleep on account of his anxiety about the horses, and that he
     slept in the loft. All three bore excellent characters. John Straker,
     sneer.
     so, it would tell against this man Simpson."
     stable-boy sleeps there alone every night. Perhaps that is his supper
     stables his supper, which consisted of a dish of curried mutton. She
     stables, and yet, though some one had been in and had fetched out a
     stand."
     stated as baldly as possible. I shall now recapitulate what the
     stating it to another person, and I can hardly expect your
     steeples of Tavistock, and by a cluster of houses away to the
     stood upon that."
     stranger came up again.
     stranger had, while standing at the window, drugged his curried
     struggle, and be now wandering out on the moors. That is the case as
     struggle. But from that morning he has disappeared, and although a
     struggles which follow any brain injury?"
     such a horse. They would run a great risk and gain nothing by taking
     such personal importance to so many people, that we are suffering
     suggested, but I wish to leave no stone unturned in trying to avenge
     supposition could this stranger, Fitzroy Simpson, have caused curry
     surely have been seen by now. And why should gypsies kidnap him?
     surgery. And it was to be used for a delicate operation that night.
     suspicion of having poisoned the stable-boy, he was undoubtedly out
     sweetest of voices.
     taken fifty paces before I heard him give a shout, and saw him waving
     tall, fair man with lion-like hair and beard and curiously
     telegrams from both Colonel Ross, the owner of the horse, and from
     tendon-nicking without a little practice. What could he practice on?
     test the matter when I am once upon the spot, and until then I cannot
     that Fitzroy Simpson was the true culprit, although, of course, I saw
     that he had been out in the storm of the night before, and his stick,
     that his only hope of mercy is to produce it safe."
     that it is the one which was found in the dead man's grasp. Watson,
     that money can buy.'
     that one at least of his assailants must bear his mark upon him.
     that the evidence against him was by no means complete. It was while
     that the remains of his supper left by the stable-lad contain an
     that there is a long hollow over yonder, which must have been very
     that we are any further than when he came."
     that yesterday has not been wasted."
     the Colonel's manner has been just a trifle cavalier to me. I am
     the Colonel. "Why, what is that? Silver Blaze favorite?"
     the alert, no news has come of him. Finally, an analysis has shown
     the bottom of one of the pits or old mines upon the moor."
     the boy has this to-night, and you shall have the prettiest frock
     the buildings he failed to find any trace of him."
     the creature frightened at the sudden glare, and with the strange
     the exception of Holmes, who continued to lean back with his eyes
     the favorite's stall was empty, and there were no signs of his
     the first down, he perceived a strange horse wandering over the moor.
     the flag next Tuesday.
     the handle, while in his left he clasped a red and black silk cravat,
     the hollow, he had got behind the horse and had struck a light; but
     the horse?"
     the immense significance of the curried mutton occurred to me. You
     the influence of some powerful drug, and as no sense could be got out
     the neighboring moors were visible, they not only could see no signs
     the paper which he wished the maid to give to the stable-boy?"
     the parlor.
     the passage, took a step forward and laid her hand upon the
     the police can be."
     the rule that the lad on duty should drink nothing else. The maid
     the same for supper with no ill effects. Which of them, then, had
     the summer. The opium was probably brought from London. The key,
     the supposition, and find ourselves justified. Let us proceed."
     the text or any medium it may be on, including but not limited to
     the trainer had for some reason taken out the horse for early
     their friends find admittance. "You have only to wash his face and
     their ladies. I questioned Mrs. Straker as to the dress without her
     them that they were in the presence of a tragedy.
     them, but half way up the yellow of the Mapleton stable showed to the
     them. Again, of course no subordinate would have dared to do such a
     them?"
     there!"
     thing. I described to him how, when according to his custom he was
     this Fitzroy Simpson, having drugged the lad, and having in some way
     this knife is surely in your line?"
     those odds enormous sums of money have been laid upon him. It is
     thought, would be rather over thirty than under it.
     thought.
     thoughts. It was only when I touched his arm that he roused himself
     through your memoirs. The fact is that I could not believe it
     thumb in his waistcoat pocket. "Should I be too early to see your
     to Colonel Ross as well as to myself, as we listened to our
     to Dartmoor in the hope of getting some information about the King's
     to be served in the trainer's family that night, and it is surely too
     to discover not only the method of the crime, but even its motives.
     to him about the horse."
     to it," returned my companion. "The police imagine, I take it, that
     to lead him back to King's Pyland, and how the devil had shown him
     to one on him. He has always, however, been a prime favorite with the
     to see them."
     to the gates of the Mapleton stables. As we approached, a groom ran
     to the hollow in which the body had been found. At the brink of it
     to-morrow, and I think that I shall put this horseshoe into my pocket
     together upon a chair, Hunter was sunk in a state of absolute stupor,
     too proud to earn the price of a new dress, would you?' He took a
     took no liquid, as there was a water-tap in the stables, and it was
     topic of conversation through the length and breadth of England. For
     traces. Let us follow the return track."
     track was visible beside the horse's.
     tracks. Then we lost them for half a mile, but only to pick them up
     tragic murder of its trainer. When, therefore, he suddenly announced
     trainer's house. The Colonel and the Inspector were awaiting us in
     trainer, is known to have had large bets upon the event, and he was
     trainer.
     trampled up a good deal. No doubt many feet have been here since
     turned upon his heel, disregarding the trembling hand which the other
     tweeds, with a cloth cap. He wore gaiters, and carried a heavy stick
     two inches of tallow candle, an A D P brier-root pipe, a pouch of
     two miles to the west, while across the moor, also about two miles
     understanding between Simpson and these gypsies, might he not have
     undoubtedly detect it, and would probably eat no more. A curry was
     uneasy, and Mrs. Straker, waking at one in the morning, found that he
     up by our news agent, only to be glanced over and tossed down into a
     upon his chest and his brows knitted, charging and recharging his
     upon his hands, he made a careful study of the trampled mud in front
     upon the dressing-table, and that he had picked it up as he left the
     us, and we shall do all that is possible."
     used rather for the sifting of details than for the acquiring of
     villa with overhanging eaves which stood by the road. Some distance
     wait here for an instant, I have a question which I should like to
     walk over the moor before it grows dark, that I may know my ground
     walked down the bank to the right, and he to the left, but I had not
     walked up to the trainer's house, where they had supper in the
     warranties of any kind, expressed or implied, are made to you as to
     warranties of merchantablity or fitness for a particular purpose.
     was a person of gentlemanly bearing, dressed in a gray suit of
     was ashy pale, beads of perspiration shone upon his brow, and his
     was dressing. In reply to her inquiries, he said that he could not
     was flapping from a furze-bush. Immediately beyond there was a
     was found in the dead man's hand, a knife which certainly no sane man
     was full of his case, and poured out a stream of remarks, while
     was in charge of Silas Brown at the Mapleton stables. He did not
     was the furze-bush upon which the coat had been hung.
     watch. "I wish you would come back with me, Inspector," said he.
     way," said I.
     we made our way into the weighing enclosure, where only owners and
     weighing-chair. He has served the Colonel for five years as jockey
     well-known sportsman; the other, Inspector Gregory, a man who was
     well. It never went better in its life. I owe you a thousand
     were all wasted upon my companion, who was sunk in the deepest
     westward which marked the Mapleton stables. We all sprang out with
     wet on Monday night. If our supposition is correct, then the horse
     what I had both expected and hoped for.
     what his actions had been upon that morning that he is convinced that
     which Gregory lacks. We imagined what might have happened, acted upon
     which could challenge his powers of analysis, and that was the
     which had led to our journey.
     which he had begun so brilliantly was quite incomprehensible to me.
     which he had formed of my companion's ability, but I saw by the
     which he had unravelled them.
     which he was brooding.  There was but one problem before the public
     which the trainer had succumbed. On the other hand, there was no
     which the whole mystery turns. On Tuesday evening I received
     which was a Penang-lawyer weighted with lead, was just such a weapon
     which was recognized by the maid as having been worn on the preceding
     which you are carrying to him. Now I am sure that you would not be
     while I listened with interest to the dialogue of the two detectives.
     while Sherlock Holmes, with his sharp, eager face framed in his
     whirled back to London, and I fancy that the journey was a short one
     white forehead which has given the favorite its name, that chance had
     who is a married man, lived in a small villa about two hundred yards
     who may wish to enjoy the pure Dartmoor air. Tavistock itself lies
     who rode in Colonel Ross's colors before he became too heavy for the
     why. There have been cases before now where trainers have made sure
     wire to Dartmoor yesterday to clear the matter up. The boy locked the
     wished to injure it why could he not do it there? Has a duplicate key
     wished to obtain first-hand information. When confronted with his
     with a gold chain, five sovereigns in gold, an aluminum pencil-case,
     with a hunting-crop swinging in his hand.
     with a knob to it. She was most impressed, however, by the extreme
     with a violent start and stepped out of the carriage.
     with powdered opium upon the very night when a dish happened to be
     with the crime, Colonel," said he. "The real murderer is standing
     with the print of a recent horror.
     women ran out in search of the absentees. They still had hopes that
     would be put down to a strain in exercise or a touch of rheumatism,
     would choose for a weapon. It was, as Dr. Watson told us, a form of
     wound upon his person, while the state of Straker's knife would show
     yards in five furlongs, and that the stable have put their money on
     year, and has brought in turn each of the prizes of the turf to
     years, and never was asked such a question as that before," said he.
     you can hardly get three to one now."
     you could lay your hands on the murderer of John Straker."
     you how we serve them in King's Pyland.' He sprang up and rushed
     you think that you have kept up your mystery long enough, Mr.
     your horse will start upon Tuesday, and I beg that you will have your
     your parlor?"
     zealous and honest servant. Under him were three lads; for the
