



















     But come, it's getting dreadful late, you had better be turning flukes --it's
     But here is an artist.  He desires to paint you the dreamiest, shadiest,
     Call me Ishmael.  Some years ago--never mind how
     Do you pretend to say, landlord, that this harpooneer is actually engaged
     Don't be afraid now, said he, grinning again.  Queequeg here wouldn't harm
     Entering that gable-ended Spouter-Inn,
     Grub, ho!  now cried the landlord, flinging open a door, and in we went to
     I quickly followed suit, and descending into
     I stuffed a shirt or two into my old
     I succeeded in extracting a grunt; and presently, he drew back his arm,
     If I had been astonished at first catching a
     Landlord, said I, going up to him as cool as Mt.  Hecla in a snow storm,
     Queequeg! --but his only answer was a snore.  I then rolled over, my neck
     Right and left, the streets take you waterward.  Its extreme down-town is
     This is my substitute for pistol and ball.  With a philosophical flourish
     Upon waking next morning about daylight,
     With heads to be sure; ain't there too many heads in the world?  I tell
-- The Spouter-Inn: --Peter Coffin.  Coffin? --Spouter? --Rather ominous in that
-- he hunted up his boots.  What under the heavens he did it for, I cannot
-- landlord, stop whittling.  You and I must understand one another, and
--the Tyre of this Carthage; --the place where the first dead American whale
--under the bed; when, from sundry violent
--yes, he's the bird what catches the worm. --But to-night he went out a
.. < chapter I 2  LOOMINGS >
.. < chapter ii 24  THE CARPET-BAG >
.. < chapter iii 14  THE SPOUTER-INN >
.. < chapter iv 2  THE COUNTERPANE >
.. < chapter v 5  BREAKFAST >
.. < chapter vi 11  THE STREET >
.. <p 10 >
.. <p 10 >
.. <p 11 >
.. <p 12 >
.. <p 13 >
.. <p 14 >
.. <p 15 >
.. <p 16 >
.. <p 17 >
.. <p 18 >
.. <p 19 >
.. <p 2 >
.. <p 20 >
.. <p 21 >
.. <p 22 >
.. <p 23 >
.. <p 24 >
.. <p 25 >
.. <p 26 >
.. <p 27 >
.. <p 28 >
.. <p 29 >
.. <p 29 >
.. <p 3 >
.. <p 30 >
.. <p 31 >
.. <p 31 >
.. <p 32 >
.. <p 4 >
.. <p 5 >
.. <p 6 >
.. <p 6 >
.. <p 7 >
.. <p 8 >
.. <p 9 >
Affghanistan.  Though I cannot tell why it was exactly that those stage
Africa, which was the sum of poor Mungo's performances -- this kind of travel,
After
Any subsequent copies of this data must include this notice  
At last, he emerged with his hat very much dented and crushed down over his
Bedford.  It was on a Saturday night in December.  Much was I disappointed
Brighggians, and, besides the wild specimens of the whaling-craft which
Broadway and Chestnut streets, Mediterranean mariners will sometimes jostle
Bulkington!  Bulkington!  where's Bulkington?  and darted out of the house in
But that was certainly very coolly done by him, and every
But though the other boarders kept coming in by ones, twos, and threes, and
Cato throws himself upon his sword; I quietly take to the ship.  There is
Christian would have washed his face; but Queequeg, to my amazement,
Commodore, or a Captain, or a Cook.  I abandon the glory and distinction of
Crossed Harpoons, and The Sword-Fish? --this, then, must needs be the sign
Crossing this dusky entry, and on through yon low-arched way --cut through
Dives, this is more wonderful than that an iceberg should be moored to one of
England hags, had endeavored to delineate chaos bewitched.  But by dint of
Etymology  (Supplied by a late consumptive usher to a grammar school.)
Extracts (supplied by a sub-sub-librarian.)
Fill to this mark, and your charge is but a penny; to this a penny more;
For by how much the more pains ye take to please the world,
He loved to dust his old grammars; it somehow mildly reminded him of his mortality.
He now took off his hat --a new beaver hat --when I came nigh singing out with
He was ever  dusting his old lexicons and grammars, with a queer handkerchief,
How then is this?  Are the green fields gone?  What do they here?  But look!
I bolted a dinner.  Even as it was, I thought something of slipping out of the
I cannot say much for his breeding.  His greatest admirer could not have
I concluded that it must be nothing but a wooden idol, which indeed it
I found Queequeg's arm thrown over me in the most loving and affectionate
I kill-e!  again growled the cannibal, while his horrid flourishings of the
I say, may not be the very best mode of attaining a high social polish.
I told him that I never liked to sleep two in a bed; that if I should ever do
I well remember a somewhat similar circumstance that befell me; whether it
Iceland --no fire at all  --the landlord said he couldn't afford it.  Nothing
Ignorance is the parent of fear, and being completely nonplussed and
Ishmael, said I at last; don't you hear?  get away from before the door;
It was prepared by Professor Eugene F. Irey at the University of Colorado.
It will be seen that this mere painstaking burrower and grubworm of a poor 
Johnny in the foot of it.  But I got a dreaming and sprawling about one night,
Ledyard, the great New England traveller, and Mungo Park, the Scotch one; of
Look there!  that chap strutting round the corner.  He wears a beaver hat and
Meanwhile, I lay quietly eyeing him, having no serious misgivings now, and
Meanwhile, he continued the business of undressing, and at last showed his
My sensations were strange.  Let me try to explain them.  When I was a child,
Nevertheless, a man like Queequeg you don't see every day, he and his ways
New Zealand head --a ghastly thing enough --and crammed it down into the bag.
Niagara but a cataract of sand, would you travel your thousand miles to see
No.  They must get just as nigh the water as they possibly can without falling
One young fellow in a green box coat, addressed himself to these dumplings in
Pacific.  Quitting the good city of old Manhatto, I duly arrived in New
Parliament sitting in Tophet.  A hundred black faces turned round in their
Placing these on the old chest in the middle of the room, he then took the
Prairies in June,
Preliminary Matter.  
Projecting from the further angle of the room stands a dark-looking den --the
Queequeg made, staving about with little else but his hat and boots on; I
Queequeg?  which, barred with various tints, seemed like the Andes' western
Remembering the embalmed head, at first I almost thought that this black
Rensselaers, or Randolphs, or Hardicanutes.  And more than all, if just
Saco.  What is the chief element he employs?  There stand his trees, each with
Saturday night clean into the holy Sabbath, engaged in such a cannibal
So fare thee well, poor devil of a Sub-Sub, whose commentator I am.
Some were storied weapons.  With this once long lance, now wildly elbowed,
Still, for the most part, that sort of thing is to be had anywhere.  These
Supper 'll be ready directly.  I sat down on an old wooden settle, carved all
Supper over, the company went back to the bar-room, when, knowing not what
Surely all this is not without meaning.  And still deeper the meaning of that
Testament?  Do you think the archangel Gabriel thinks anything the less of me,
The original iron entered
The pale Ushei{rthreadbare} in coat, heart, body, and brain; I see him now.
Then the wild and distant seas where he rolled his island bulk; the
There weekly arrive in this town scores of green Vermonters and New Hampshire
There's plenty room for two to kick about in that bed; it's an almighty big
Therefore you must not, in every case at least, take the higgledy-piggledy
They had just landed from their boat, and this was the first house they
This being told to Queequeg, he at once complied, and again politely motioned
This text of Melville's Moby-Dick is based on the Hendricks House edition.
Thou belongest to that hopeless, sallow tribe which no wine of this world will 
Throwing aside the counterpane, there lay the tomahawk sleeping by the
United States.  Whaling Voyage by one Ishmael.  Bloody Battle in
Watch!  Coffin!  Angels!  save me!  Speak-e!  tell-ee me who-ee be, or dam-me,
Whitehall northward.  What do you see?--Posted like silent sentinels all
Would that I could clear out Hampton Court and the Tuileries for ye!  But
Yet here they all unite.  Tell me, does the magnetic virtue of the needles of
Zealand heads (great curios, you know), and he's sold all on 'em but one,
a bit of glass stuck against the wall, and I never saw such a sight in my
a bitter cold morning.  Seeing, now, that there were no curtains to the window,
a chap is he --does he always keep such late hours?  It was now hard upon
a choice resulting from my own unbiased freewill and discriminating judgment.
a dive.  Strange!  Nothing will content them but the extremest limit of the
a door mat, and parade the streets of any Christian town in that sort of
a hair of your head.  Stop your grinning, shouted I, and why didn't you
a harpooneer, then your objections indefinitely multiply.  Nor was there any
a hollow trunk, as if a hermit and a crucifix were within; and here sleeps
a little plan that had occurred to me just previous to the entrance of the
a man smoking in bed with me.  It's dangerous.  Besides, I aint insured.
a most direful manner.  My boy, said the landlord, you'll have the
a nice bed: Sal and me slept in that ere bed the night we were spliced.
a sailor, because of the wholesome exercise and pure air of the forecastle
a tomahawk!  Queequeg! --in the name of goodness, Queequeg, wake!  At length,
a whalin', so you'd better get used to that sort of thing.
aboard of a whaleman in the South Seas, and so landed in this Christian
about
about in the most unnatural manner.  At last extinguishing the fire, he took
about that harpooneer. -- I shan't sleep with him.  I'll try the bench here.
abreast.  There, said the landlord, placing the candle on a crazy old sea
accommodated with a room, received for answer that his house was full --not a
accustomed to boots, his pair of damp, wrinkled cowhide ones -- probably not
act of paying is perhaps the most uncomfortable infliction that the two
afternoon of the 21st June, the longest day in the year in our hemisphere.  I
afternoon.  Go from Corlears Hook to Coenties Slip, and from thence, by
again and go to sleep.  Queequeg, look here --you sabbee me, I sabbee you --this
against this unknown harpooneer.  Thinks I, I'll wait awhile; he must be
air over me from under the sill of the window, that this plan would never do
all men, they possessed the least assurance in the parlor.  But perhaps the
all seated at the table, and I was preparing to hear some good stories about
all that region.  Should you ever be athirst in the great American desert,
all, down the throat of the tempest.  But think not that this famous town has
almost drive beneath it.  within are shabby shelves, ranged round with old
altogether unwarranted.  But what most puzzled and confounded you was a long,
an ash-box in the porch.  Ha!  thought I, ha, as the flying particles almost
an unknown stranger, in a strange inn, in a strange town, and that stranger
and any publications resulting from analysis of this data must
and ashes a little, he made a polite offer of it to the little negro.  But the
and at Bombay, in the Apollo Green, live Yankees have often scared the
and bear it.  But even this wears off in time.  What of it, if some old hunks
and cheerless.  I knew no one in the place.  With anxious grapnels I had
and easy parts in genteel comedies, and jolly parts in farces --though I
and grow convivial upon tears; and say to them bluntly, with full eyes and empty 
and it's a plaguy rough board here --feeling of the knots and notches.  But
and jolly, again thought I, pausing one moment to watch the broad glare in
and making refugees of long-pampered  Gabriel, Michael, and Raphael, against
and my stepmother who, somehow or other, was all the time whipping me, or
and put a corn-cob into his mouth, and yet that would not keep out the
and requires a strong decoction of Seneca and the Stoics to enable you to grin
and run away with by a whale, years afterward slain off the Cape of Blanco.
and so on to the full glass --the Cape Horn measure, which you may gulp down
and somehow, Sam got pitched on the floor, and came near breaking his arm.
and that one he's trying to sell to-night, cause to-morrow's Sunday, and it
and that the street being very narrow, the house opposite commanded a plain
and then proceeded to wash himself.  At that time in the morning any
another cursed Jonah (by which name indeed they called him), bustles a
another grin, and throwing them into the great stove in the middle of the
another with a sou'-wester and a bombazine cloak.  No town-bred dandy will
answered, generally he's an early bird -- airley to bed and airley to rise
apartment to myself.  Thinks I, Queequeg, under the circumstances, this is a
are in the country; in some high land of lakes.  Take almost any path you
arm of his tattooed all over with an interminable Cretan labyrinth of a
around the town, stand thousands upon thousands of mortal men fixed in ocean
around this town?  That's precisely it, said the landlord, and I told him
as I was, and remembering what the landlord said about the harpooneer's not
as affording a glancing bird's eye view of what has been promiscuously said,
as carelessly as if he were a sportsman bagging a dead woodcock.  All these
as he was, he still hugged me tightly, as though naught but death should part
as the poets here appearing, these extracts are solely valuable or entertaining,
as you gazed, and wondered what monstrous cannibal and savage could ever have
ashore.  To be sure they all sleep together in one apartment, but you have
at all, especially as another current from the rickety door met the one from
at once; and since the sea-gods had ordained that he should soon become my
at the whales, in order to discover when they were nigh enough to risk a
away at his pipe and sitting up in bed.  You gettee in, he added, motioning
away at the space between his legs.  he was trying his hand at a ship under
away unobserved, and I saw no more of him till he became my comrade on the
bamboozingly story is this you are telling me?  getting into a towering rage.
bar-- a rude attempt at a right whale's head.  Be that how it may, there
be backward, but let him cheerfully allow himself to spend and be spent in
be, to keep quiet, and let me get up and light the lamp again.  But his
be.
beards stiff with icicles, they seemed an eruption of bears from Labrador.
beaver hat, a very tall one, by the by, and then --still minus his trowsers
because I promptly and respectfully obey that old hunks in that particular
bed that.  Why, afore we give it up, Sal used to put our Sam and little
bed unoccupied.  But avast, he added, tapping his forehead, you haint no
bed!  the small of my back ached to think of it.  And it was so light too;
bed.  But what is this on the chest?  I took it up, and held it close to the
bedfellow; he's been in a fight, got dreadfully cut, and here he is, just
bedwards.  Suppose now, he should tumble in upon me at midnight --how could I
beefsteaks, done rare.  Enough, that when breakfast was over he withdrew like
before I did.
began to think that after all I might be cherishing unwarrantable prejudices
begged him as well as I could, to accelerate his toilet somewhat, and
being cunningly presented to me under various disguises, induced me to set
bench in the room was about four inches higher than the planed one --so there
bent upon narrowly observing so curious a creature.  When, at last, his mind
beseeching her as a particular favor to give me a good slippering for my
besides the Feegeeans, Tongatabooarrs, Erromanggoans, Pannangians, and
bespeaking his sea-outfit, he orders bell-buttons to his waistcoats; straps
between the andirons.  the chimney jambs and all the bricks inside were very
biscuit on top and applying the flame from the lamp, he kindled the shavings
bit of mirror against the wall, begins a vigorous scraping, or rather
black-letter, thou reasonest well.  Yes, these eyes are windows, and this
blackish looking squares.  Yes, it's just as I thought, he's a terrible
blackness of darkness, and the weeping and wailing and teeth-gnashing
blackness, not houses, on either hand, and here and there a candle, like a
blanket.  I thought so.  All right; take a seat.  Supper? --you want supper?
body of mine is the house.  What a pity they didn't stop up the chinks and the
boisterous something about everything connected with that famous old island,
brawny company, with bosky beards; an unshorn, shaggy set, all wearing
breakfast.  They say that men who have seen the world, thereby become quite at
breath, that's a purty long sarmon for a chap that rips a little now and
breezes, which a few hours previous were out of sight of land.  Look at the
broad awake, feeling a great deal worse than I have ever done since, even
brown and burnt, making his white teeth dazzling by the contrast; while in
business as selling the heads of dead idolators?  Depend upon it, landlord,
but I rolled about a good deal, and could not sleep for a long time.  At
but as for me, I am tormented with an everlasting itch for things remote.  I
but jumped out of my pantaloons and boots, and then blowing out the light
but two dismal tallow candles, each in a winding sheet.  We were fain to
but with whom one sometimes loves to sit, and feel poor-devilish, too;
button up our monkey jackets, and hold to our lips cups of scalding tea with
by a pool in the stream.  There is magic in it.  Let the most absent-minded
by dint of much wriggling, and loud and incessant expostulations upon the
by so much the more shall ye for ever go thankless!
by wharves as Indian isles by coral reefs--commerce surrounds it with her surf.
came into the room light in hand, and leaping from the bed I ran up to him.
came such fervent rays, that it seemed to have melted the packed snow and ice
came to a smoky light proceeding from a low, wide building, the door of which
can better answer than any one else.  And, doubtless, my going on this whaling
can only give me half a one; that the other half belongs to a certain
candle a good way off from me on the floor in one corner, and then began
candle moving about in a tomb.  At this hour of the night, of the last day of
cannibals stand chatting at street corners; savages outright; many of whom
cannot tell why this was exactly; yet, now that I recall all the
carpet-bag, tucked it under my arm, and started for Cape Horn and the
centre of the picture over three blue, dim, perpendicular lines floating in a
centre table, could see no other furniture belonging to the place, but a
cetology.  Far from it.  As touching the ancient authors generally, as well 
chance of spending a sufferable night unless in some other person's bed, I
cheapest, if not the cheeriest inns.  Such dreary streets!  Blocks of
cheek like
cheerfully we consign ourselves to perdition!  Finally, I always go to sea as
chest and arms.  As I live, these covered parts of him were checkered with
chest that did double duty as a wash-stand and centre table; there, make
chief among these motives was the overwhelming idea of the great whale
chief mates, and second mates, and third mates, and sea carpenters, and sea
chimney and packed me off to bed, though it was only two o'clock in the
choked me, are these ashes from that destroyed city, Gomorrah?  But The
circumstances, I think I can see a little into the springs and motives which
clean over the craft, is in the enormous act of impaling himself upon the
clear space against the wall, leaving a little interval between, for my back
closely seated by my bedside.  For what seemed ages piled on ages, I lay
clouds of tobacco smoke.  The next moment the light was extinguished, and
coffer-dam.  I have seldom seen such brawn in a man.  His face was deeply
combat of the four primal elements. --It's a blasted heath. --It's a Hyperborean
come to anchor somewhere --come along then; do come; won't ye come?  I
come to the conclusion that such an idea, however wild, might not be
comely looking cannibal.  What's all this fuss I have been making about,
coming home at all that night, it being so very late, I made no more ado,
compare with a country-bred one -- I mean a downright bumpkin dandy --a fellow
completely independent of the squares of tattooing.  To be sure, it might be
complexion of a third still lingers a tropic tawn, but slightly bleached
concerned), I will here venture upon a little description of him.  He stood
confounded about the stranger, i confess i was now as much afraid of him as if
consciousness of knowing something about me seemed slowly dawning over him.
considered the matter a moment, and then up stairs we went, and I was
considering that we so earnestly believe money to be the root of all earthly
content.  Again, I always go to sea as a sailor, because they make a point of
contented himself with restricting his ablutions to his chest, arms, and
coopers, and sea blacksmiths, and harpooneers, and ship keepers; a brown and
cordially justified his bringing his harpoon into breakfast with him, and
could be mended with a chair.  But it was a foot too narrow, and the other
could make eider down of a pine plank.  So gathering up the shavings with
country schoolmaster, making the tallest boys stand in awe of you.  The
country.  I quaked to think of it.  A peddler of heads too --perhaps the heads
crannies though, and thrust in a little lint here and there.  But it's too
crawl up the chimney, as i had seen a little sweep do a few days previous;
crazy to go to sea?  Why upon your first voyage as a passenger, did you
crowds of water-gazers there.  Circumambulate the city of a dreamy Sabbath
curious, certainly more comical.
cutlery with a vengeance.  Afterwards I wondered the less at this operation
dark complexioned harpooneer.  At any rate, I made up my mind that if it
dark.  Landlord, for God's sake, Peter Coffin!  shouted I.  Landlord!
darkness.  Instantly I felt a shock running through all my frame; nothing was
decanters, bottles, flasks; and in those jaws of swift destruction, like
decidedly objectionable, why rather than wander further about a strange town
deck.  For as in this world, head winds are far more prevalent than winds
defaced, that in the unequal cross-lights by which you viewed it, it was
degree, some time or other, cherish very nearly the same feelings towards the
deliriums and death.  Abominable are the tumblers into which he pours his
devil fetch that harpooneer, thought I, but stop, couldn't I steal a march on
devil of a Sub-Sub appears to have gone through the long Vaticans and 
difficulty having opened his bag, he commenced fumbling in it, and presently
dismally calculating that sixteen entire hours must elapse before I could hope
dismantled masts alone visible; and an exasperated whale, purposing to spring
dismissed it.  For who could tell but what the next morning, so soon as I
does it not bear a faint resemblance to a gigantic fish?  even the great
don't be too particular.  With halting steps I paced the streets, and passed
don't--he eats nothing but steaks, and likes 'em rare.  The devil he does,
down lengthwise along the line of the equator; yea, ye
dreadnaught, which he had previously hung on a chair, he fumbled in the
dreams --I opened my eyes, and the before sun-lit room was now wrapped in outer
dreary street shouldering my bag, and comparing the gloom towards the north
dress first and then leave me to dress afterwards, leaving the whole
drinks the tepid tears of orphans.  But no more of this blubbering now, we are
dropping in before long.  I'll have a good look at him then, and perhaps we
each other as though they had never been out of sight of some sheepfold among
earthly reason why I as a sailor should sleep two in a bed, more than anybody
ease in manner, quite self-possessed in company.  Not always, though:
effects upon the skin.  Now, while all these ideas were passing through me
else singing some pagan psalmody or other, during which his face twitched
else to do with myself, I resolved to spend the rest of the evening as a
else; for sailors no more sleep two in a bed at sea, than bachelor Kings do
enough civilized to show off his outlandishness in the strangest possible
enough.  So saying he procured the plane; and with his old silk handkerchief
entered.  No wonder, then, that they made a straight wake for the whale's
eschewed coffee and hot rolls, and applied his undivided attention to
ever warm; and for whom even Pale Sherry would be too rosy-strong;
exceedingly sharp the long straight edges are always kept.
exhibiting strong symptoms of concluding his business operations, and jumping
extensive performances.  I take it that this part of the bill must have run
eyes, and began creaking and limping about the room, as if, not being much
eyes, and begin to be over conscious of my lungs, I do not mean to have it
face.  I was watching to see where he kept his razor, when lo and behold, he
falling among the cannibals, had been tattooed by them.  I concluded that this
feeling as if it were in a horse-collar; and suddenly felt a slight scratch.
feet a-going, and he will infallibly lead you to water, if water there be in
feet, sought out my stepmother, and suddenly threw myself at her feet,
felt dreadfully.  But there was no help for it, so up stairs I went to my
fifty years ago did Nathan Swain kill fifteen whales between a sunrise and a
figure, no two parts of which were of one precise shade --owing I suppose to
filled with dusty rarities gathered from this wide world's remotest nooks.
fire, and still hastier
first I knew not what to make of this; but soon an inkling of the truth
first dusting the bench, vigorously set to planing away at my bed, the while
first you almost thought some ambitious young artist, in the time of the New
five of us were summoned to our meal in an adjoining room.  It was cold as
follow.  First he takes about a double handful of shavings out of his grego
followed the streets that took me waterward, for there, doubtless, were the
following before me in New Bedford, ere I could embark for my destined port,
foot against the flinty projections, because from hard, remorseless
for a resurrection.  Sixteen hours in
for a shilling.  Upon entering the place I found a number of young seamen
for days and weeks and months afterwards I lost myself in confounding attempts
forth, partly laden with imported cobble-stones --so goes the story --to throw
fresh surprise.  There was no hair on his head --none to speak of at least --
from astern (that is, if you never violate the Pythagorean maxim), so for
from before the house, for everywhere else the congealed frost lay ten inches
from deliberately stepping into the street, and methodically knocking
from him against the wall, and then conjured him, whoever or whatever he might
from lanes and alleys, streets and avenues, --north, east, south, and west.
from me; but waking in the morning, I shudderingly remembered it all, and
from the docks, and heard a forlorn creaking in the air; and looking up,
from the greatest subsequent misfortunes.  At last I must have fallen into a
from the quilt, they so blended their hues together; and it was only by the
from the surgeon.  But at that moment he chanced to turn his face so towards
full sail, but he didn't make much headway, I thought.  At last some four or
full six feet in height, with noble shoulders, and a chest like a
further adorning it with his jack-knife, stooping over and diligently working
gaspings and strainings, I inferred he was hard at work booting himself;
gathered about a table, examining by a dim light divers specimens of
genteelly.  We will not speak of all Queequeg's peculiarities here; how he
give him much joy.  His voice at once announced
glasses deceitfully tapered downwards to a cheating bottom.  Parallel
glasses, and in not altogether unpleasant sadness i{give} it up, sub-subs!
glazier.  True enough, thought I, as this passage occurred to my mind --old
glimpse of so outlandish an individual as Queequeg circulating among the
glittering teeth resembling ivory saws; others were tufted with knots of
gods!  go down to the fiery pit itself, in order to keep out this frost?  Now,
goin' out of the door with four heads strung on a string, for all the airth
going a-whaling, and there is plenty of that yet to come.  Let us scrape the
going to bed, yet no sign of my harpooneer.  Landlord!  said I, what sort of
gone a death-harvesting with such a hacking, horrifying implement.  Mixed with
got a carpenter's plane there in the bar --wait, I say, and I'll make ye snug
gradually monopolizing the business of whaling, and though in this matter poor
great rudeness; staring at him from the bed, and watching all his toilette
great whales on the high seas --entire strangers to them --and duelled them dead
grinning like an ape.  The shavings flew right and left; till at last the
guise?  I put it on, to try it, and it weighed me down like a hamper, being
gulp down your tears and hie aloft to the royal-mast with your  hearts; for
guttural noises from the devotee, who seemed to be praying in a sing-song or
guttural responses satisfied me at once that he but ill comprehended my
had not been a small degree civilized, he very probably would not have
hammock lashed up, and thrown upon the floor in one corner; also a large
hand from the sailors on the forecastle.  He thinks he breathes it first; but
hands.  He then donned his waistcoat, and taking up a piece of hard soap on
harpoon from the bowsprit?  Now having a night, a day, and still another night
harpooneer hears you a slanderin' his head.  I'll break it for him, said I,
harpooneer, his linen or woollen, as the case might be, would not be of the
harpooneer, in the course of his distant voyages, must have met with a
harpooneer, is it?  Oh, no, said he, looking a sort of diabolically funny,
harpooneer.  And about this harpooneer, whom I have not yet seen, you
harpooning of his cheeks.  Thinks I, Queequeg, this is using Rogers's best
has just arrived from the south seas, where he bought up a lot of 'balmed New
have the satisfaction of knowing that it is all right; that everybody else
he at last succeeded in drawing out the biscuit; then blowing off the heat
he began feeling me.  Stammering out something, I knew not what, I rolled away
he could anyways find in any book whatsoever, sacred or profane.
he couldn't sell it here, the market's overstocked.  With what?  shouted I.
he did not altogether remember how I came to be there, though a dim
he exclaimed I vum it's Sunday --you won't see that harpooneer to-night; he's
he refrained from making as much noise as the rest.  This man interested me
he saw in the fountain, plunged into it and was drowned.  But that same
he swore was a sovereign cure for all colds and catarrhs whatsoever, never
head now looked for all the world like a mildewed skull.  Had not the stranger
heads muffled in woollen comforters, all bedarned and ragged, and their
heads, as it generally does even with the arrantest topers newly landed from
heard in the entry; the door was flung open, and in rolled a wild set of
heathenish array of monstrous clubs and spears.  Some were thickly set with
here come more crowds, pacing straight for the water, and seemingly bound for
hidden image, feeling but ill at ease meantime --to see what was next to
him --bolt his door inside, and jump into his bed, not to be wakened by the
himself.  Such a portentous and mysterious monster roused all my curiosity.
his keeping his arm at sea unmethodically in sun and shade, his shirt
his meadow, and there sleep his cattle; and up from yonder cottage goes a
his own proper person, afford stuff for a good joke to anybody, let him not
his unearthly complexion, that part of it, I mean, lying round about, and
holding it to the light, with his mouth at the handle, he puffed out great
holy?  Why did the Greeks give it a separate deity, and own brother of Jove?
however, he turned round --when, good heavens!  what a sight!  Such a face!  It
howling night, when this corner-anchored old ark rocked so furiously.  On one
human hair; and one was sickle-shaped, with a vast handle sweeping round like
ibis and roasted river horse, that you see the mummies of those creatures in
ice from our frosted feet, and see what sort of a place this Spouter may
if a parcel of dark green frogs were running up the trunks of young palms.  It
ills, and that on no account can a monied man enter heaven.  Ah!  how
image, we ourselves see in all rivers and oceans.  It is the image of the
immediate vicinity of the spot where I had thought to spend the night.  The
imminent jeopardy of many heads, and grappling the beefsteaks towards him.
in a great hurricane; the half-foundered ship weltering there with its three
in all respects safe to spend the night with him.  And in the first place,
in fixed reality, and then I lay only alive to the comical predicament.  For
in it.  Besides, passengers get sea-sick --grow quarrelsome --don't sleep of
in lath and plaster--tied to counters, nailed to benches, clinched to desks.
in the South Seas; and perhaps the sun there produced these extraordinary
in the room.  I was all eagerness to see his face, but he kept it averted for
in the transition state -- neither caterpillar nor butterfly.  He was just
in.  And there they stand--miles of them--leagues.  Inlanders all, they come
include reference to Professor Irey's work.
including our own.
inexplicable in him.
inferred that I ever go to sea as a passenger.  For to go as a passenger you
inquiry of the neighbors, that you could any way arrive at an understanding
instance?  Who aint a slave?  Tell me that.  Well, then, however the old
interval I spent in deliberating what to say, was a fatal one.  Taking up his
intimate and confidential one in the highest degree.  I now demand of you to
into a sacrificial blaze.  Presently, after many hasty snatches into the
into bed with me, I thought it was high time, now or never, before the light
invest his money in a pedestrian trip to Rockaway Beach?  Why is almost every
involuntarily took an oath with yourself to find out what that marvellous
is good, I am quick to perceive a horror, and could still be social with
is on, and the chips were carted off a million years ago.  Poor Lazarus
is one way or other served in much the same way -- either in a physical or
is the one charm wanting? --Water --there is not a drop of water there!  Were
it became a matter of concernment where I was to eat and sleep meanwhile.  It
it seems, for some reason a huge favorite with them, they raised a cry of
it was getting late, and my decent harpooneer ought to be home and going
it was the devil himself who had thus broken into my room at the dead of
it with a sticking-plaster shirt.  Still more, his very legs were marked, as
it--would they let me --since it is but well to be on friendly terms with all
it.  Now, take away the awful fear, and my sensations at feeling the
it; --didn't I tell ye, he was peddlin' heads around town? --but turn flukes
it?  Why did the poor poet of Tennessee, upon suddenly receiving two handfuls
jiffy; and so saying he lighted a candle and held it towards me, offering to
jump from spar to spar, like a grasshopper in a May meadow.  And at first,
just as you please; i'm sorry i cant spare ye a tablecloth for a mattress,
kill-e.  And so saying the lighted tomahawk began flourishing about me in the
land trunk.  Likewise, there was a parcel of outlandish bone fish hooks on the
land; loitering under the shady lee of yonder warehouses will not suffice.
landlord cried, That's the Grampus's crew.  I seed her reported in the
landlord's.  It's broke a'ready, said he.  Broke, said I -- broke, do you
landlord) really had no other place for me, and the harpooneer was not
large door mat, ornamented at the edges with little tinkling tags something
last I slid off into a light doze, and had pretty nearly made a good offing
last all these fancies yielded to that one portentous something in the
last-mentioned haunts you see only sailors; but in New Bedford, actual
late to make any improvements now.  The universe is finished; the copestone
lead the way.  But I stood irresolute; when looking at a clock in the corner,
leaning over sadly.  It stood on a sharp bleak corner, where that tempestuous
leg of ye.  Good night, landlord, said I, you may go.  I turned in, and
leviathan himself?  In fact, the artist's design seemed this: a final theory
liable to a criminal prosecution.  Wall, said the landlord, fetching a long
life.  I tore myself out of it in such a hurry that I gave myself a kink in
light in one hand, and that identical New Zealand head in the other, the
light looked so dim, and the place, for the time, looked
light, and felt it, and smelt it, and tried every way possible to arrive at
like a marshal's baton.
like a string of inions.  This account cleared up the otherwise unaccountable
like leaves upon this shepherd's head, yet all were vain, unless the
like lightning, this harpooneer never noticed me at all.  But, after some
like the stained porcupine quills round an Indian moccasin.  There was a hole
like to be private when they are sleeping.  And when it comes to sleeping with
limber, portentous, black mass of something hovering in the
little devil did not seem to fancy such dry sort of fare at all; he never
little room in the third floor, undressed myself as slowly as possible so as
little withered old man, who, for their money, dearly sells the sailors
long precisely --having little or no money in my purse, and nothing particular
long time ago.  It came in as a sort of brief interlude and solo between more
looked for all the world like a strip of that same patchwork quilt.  Indeed,
looker on.  Presently a rioting noise was heard without.  Starting up, the
looking at him a moment.  For all his tattooings he was on the whole a clean,
love to sail forbidden seas, and land on barbarous coasts.  Not ignoring what
low ponderous beams above, and such old wrinkled planks beneath, that you
made of frozen sighs, and being a president of a temperance society, he only
made to order either --rather pinched and tormented him at the first go off of
made up to sail in no other than a Nantucket craft, because there was a fine,
malice towards him, though he had been skylarking with me not a little in the
man sleepe you --you sabbee?  Me sabbee plenty --grunted Queequeg, puffing
managers, the Fates, put me down for this shabby part of a whaling voyage,
manikin was a real baby preserved in some similar manner.  But seeing that it
manner.  You had almost thought I had been his wife.  The counterpane was of
manner.  his education was not yet completed.  He was an undergraduate.  If he
mariners enough.  Enveloped in their shaggy watch coats, and with their
marvels of a thousand Patagonian sights and sounds, helped to sway me to my
matter of my bedfellow.  However, a good laugh is a mighty good thing, and
mattress was stuffed with corn-cobs or broken crockery, there is no telling,
may be, he can't sell his head.  Can't sell his head? --What sort of a
may become jolly good bedfellows after all --there's no telling.
me --but at the same time what could I think of a harpooneer who stayed out a
me to get into bed --rolling over to one side as much as to say --I wont touch a
me.  But at length all the past night's events soberly recurred, one by one,
mean?  Sartain, and that's the very reason he can't sell it, I guess.
meaning.  Who-e debel you? --he at last said -- you no speak-e, dam-me, I
men, all athirst for gain and glory in the fishery.  They are mostly young,
mere crossing of Siberia in a sledge drawn by dogs as Ledyard did, or the
meridians rudely pecked into the glass, surround these footpads' goblets.
metaphysical point of view, that is; and so the universal thump is passed
middle of the room thinking.  I then took off my coat, and thought a little
might have been carted here from the ruins of some burnt district, and as the
mind of how long standing, or whether caught off the coast of Labrador, or
misbehavior; anything indeed but condemning me to lie abed such an
mockingly embellished with all the gay flags of all the known nations of the world.
monkey jackets for morning gowns.  You could pretty plainly tell how long each
more in my shirt sleeves.  But beginning to feel very cold now, half undressed
most of them all, one grand hooded phantom, like a snow hill in the air.
most violent knockings?  it seemed no bad idea; but upon second thoughts I
most young candidates for the pains and penalties of whaling
motions; for the time my curiosity getting the better of my breeding.
mouth --the bar --when the wrinkled little old Jonah, there officiating, soon
mouth; whenever it is a damp, drizzly November in my soul; whenever I find
moved his lips.  All these strange antics were accompanied by still stranger
much and earnest contemplation, and oft repeated ponderings, and especially by
much reason to fear me, as I have to be afraid of him.  Better sleep with a
must indeed be a heathen.  Going to his heavy grego, or wrapall, or
must needs have a purse, and a purse is but a rag unless you have something
my linen would get on fire.  But thank heaven, at that moment the landlord
myself involuntarily pausing before coffin warehouses, and bringing up the
mysterious harpooneer had been wearing it of a rainy day.  I went up in it to
mystery, and showed that the landlord, after all, had had no idea of fooling
nameless yeast.  A boggy, soggy, squitchy picture truly, enough to drive a
natives.  But New Bedford beats all Water street and Wapping.  In these
nervous man distracted.  Yet was there a sort of indefinite, half-attained,
never slept better in my life.
nigh the tail, and, like a restless needle sojourning in the body of a man,
night.  In fact, I was so afraid of him that I was not game enough just then
night; how Orion glitters; what northern lights!  Let them talk of their
nightmare to a dead sartainty.  Landlord, I whispered, that aint the
nights --do not enjoy themselves much, as a general thing; --no, I never go as a
no idea of sleeping with a madman; and you, sir, you I mean, landlord, you,
not Lazarus rather be in Sumatra than here?  Would he not far rather lay him
not so.  In much the same way do the commonalty lead their leaders in many
nothing but a good coat of tropical tanning; but I never heard of a hot sun's
nothing but a small scalp-knot twisted up on his forehead.  His bald purplish
nothing surprising in this.  If they but knew it, almost all men in their
now flying into a passion again at this unaccountable farrago of the
now full of the boarders who had been dropping in the night previous, and
now we'll have the latest news from the Feegees.  A tramping of sea boots was
objections to sharing a harpooneer's blanket, have ye?  I s'pose you are goin'
occurred to me.  I remembered a story of a white man --a whaleman too--who,
ocean with me.  There now is your insular city of the Manhattoes, belted round
of The Trap.  However, I picked myself up and hearing a loud voice within,
of a sea-captain orders me to get a broom and sweep down the decks?  What does
of his own brothers.  He might take a fancy to mine --heavens!  look at that
of its purpose.  such unaccountable masses of shades and shadows, that at
of making my own summer with my own coals.  But what thinks Lazarus?  Can he
of me, and secretly dogs me, and influences me in some unaccountable way --he
of men be plunged in his deepest reveries--stand that man on his legs, set his
of my own, partly based upon the aggregated opinions of many aged persons
of ships from China; some high aloft in the rigging, as if striving to get a
of silver, deliberate whether to buy him a coat, which he sadly needed, or
of stalwart frames; fellows who have felled forests, and now seek to drop
of that tempestuous wind called Euroclydon, says an old writer --of whose
of this head-peddling purple rascal altogether passed my comprehension.
off his tatters with his shiverings, he might plug up both ears with rags,
officer on ship-board --yet, somehow, I never fancied broiling fowls; --though
offing this morning; a three years' voyage, and a full ship.  Hurrah, boys;
old Nantucket is now much behind her, yet Nantucket was her great original
on its back, and exactly the color of a three days' old Congo baby.
on so bitter a night, I would put up with the half of any decent man's
on the weather side of an ice-island.  The liquor soon mounted into their
once broiled, judiciously buttered, and judgmatically salted and peppered,
one had been ashore.  This young fellow's healthy cheek is like a sun-toasted
one in-doors, with his feet on the hob quietly toasting for bed.  In judging
one knows that in most people's estimation, to do anything coolly is to do it
one of those tall mountaineers from the Alleganian Ridge in Virginia.  When
only by diligent study and a series of systematic visits to it, and careful
only harpooneers, cannibals, and bumpkins to show her visitors.  Not at all.
only meat and potatoes, but dumplings; good heavens!  dumplings for supper!
open, and in the wild conceits that swayed me to my purpose, two and two
or chapel for his Congo idol.  I now screwed my eyes hard towards the half
or slit in the middle of this mat, as you see the same in South American
orchard
oriental summer climes of everlasting conservatories; give me the privilege
other things, at the same time that the leaders little suspect it.  But
our half frozen fingers.  But the fare was of the most substantial kind --not
outside; a man can be honest in any sort of skin.  But then, what to make of
over like a bench on the Battery.  At one end a ruminating tar was still
over the bed.  Though none of the most elegant, it yet stood the scrutiny
overlapping spurs of mountains bathed in their hill-side blue.  But though
own skin.  The more I pondered over this harpooneer, the more I abominated
painting meant.  Ever and anon a bright, but, alas, deceptive idea would dart
particular connexion, thought I. But it is a common name in Nantucket,
particularly if you come of an old established family in the land, the van
particularly to get into his pantaloons as soon as possible.  He complied,
partly lying on it as the arm did when I first awoke, I could hardly tell it
passenger; nor, though I am something of a salt, do I ever go to sea as a
patchwork, full of odd little parti-colored squares and triangles; and this
paying me for my trouble, whereas they never pay passengers a single penny
pear in hue, and would seem to smell almost as musky; he cannot have been
peddling, you see, and I don't see what on airth keeps him so late, unless,
people's hats off--then, I account it high time to get to sea as soon as I can.
perfectly still, and resolved not to say a word till spoken to.  Holding a
performing the part I did, besides cajoling me into the delusion that it was
persist in telling me the most mystifying and exasperating stories, tending
picture's midst.  That once found out, and all the rest were plain.  But stop;
placed in mine.  My arm hung over the counterpane, and the nameless,
plane-iron came bump against an indestructible knot.  The landlord was near
please, and ten to one it carries you down in a dale, and leaves you there
pocket, and places them carefully before the idol; then laying a bit of ship
pockets, and produced at length a curious little deformed image with a hunch
poison.  Though true cylinders without --within, the villanous green goggling
polite society of a civilized town, that astonishment soon departed upon
polite they are.  I pay this particular compliment to Queequeg, because he
ponchos.  But could it be possible that any sober harpooneer would get into
popped out of the room, the harpooneer might be standing in the entry, all
poured them out brimmers all round.  One complained of a bad cold in his head,
previous to putting your hand into the tar-pot, you have been lording it as a
private when putting on his boots.  But Queequeg, do you see, was a creature
prodigious bed, almost big enough indeed for any four harpooneers to sleep
professor.  Yes, as every one knows, meditation and water are wedded for ever.
proved to be.  For now the savage goes up to the empty fireplace, and removing
pulled out a sort of tomahawk, and a seal-skin wallet with the hair on.
pulpit.  It was a negro church; and the preacher's text was about the
pursuit of him.  It was now about nine o'clock, and the room seeming almost
pushed on and opened a second, interior door.  It seemed the great Black
queer proceedings increased my uncomfortableness, and seeing him now
queer sort of place --a gable-ended old house, one side palsied as it were, and
quiet enough, and the dilapidated little wooden house itself looked as if it
quietest, most enchanting bit of romantic landscape in all the valley of the
quite as much as I can do to take care of myself, without taking care of
rather not sleep with your own brother.  I don't know how it is, but people
rather too scarce a good thing; the more's the pity.  So, if any one man, in
ready to knock me down!  Still, looking around me again, and seeing no possible
rear of every funeral I meet; and especially whenever my hypos get such an
reflections just here are occasioned by the circumstance that after we were
regulating the circulation.  Whenever I find myself growing grim about the
representing a tall straight jet of misty spray, and these words underneath
respectable toils, trials, and tribulations of every kind whatsoever.  It is
reveries.  Some leaning against the spiles; some seated upon the pier-heads;
robust healthy boy with a robust healthy soul in him, at some time or other
room, he went about his business, and left me in a brown study.  I now took
room, wrapped up in his great pilot monkey jacket, and sporting his harpoon
round --you enter the public room.  A still duskier place is this, with such
round, and all hands should rub each other's shoulder-blades, and be
rows to peer; and beyond, a black Angel of Doom was beating a book in a
rude shelf, the four walls, and a papered fireboard representing a man
sailor, I should now take it into my head to go on a whaling voyage; this
sailor, right before the mast, plumb down into the forecastle, aloft there
sallied out for a stroll.
sang out, I could not help it now; and giving a sudden grunt of astonishment
savage's side, as if it were a hatchet-faced baby.  A pretty pickle, truly,
savage, he never would have dreamt of getting under the bed to put them on.
saw a glimmer of light come into the room from under the door.  Lord save me,
saw a swinging sign over the door with a white painting upon it, faintly
says I. Where is that harpooneer?  Is he here?  He'll be here afore long,
sea, and they began capering about most obstreperously.  I observed, however,
sea-captains may order me about--however they may thump and punch me about, I
sea.  In a few minutes, however, he was missed by his shipmates, and being,
seaman's bag, containing the harpooneer's wardrobe, no doubt in lieu of a
seamen.  No man prefers to sleep two in a bed.  In fact, you would a good deal
seemed made up touching the character of his bedfellow, and he became, as it
seemed to be mightily tickled at something beyond my comprehension.  No, he
sending me to bed supperless, --my mother dragged me by the legs out of the
sense of delicacy, say what you will; it is marvellous how essentially
sense of weight and pressure that I could tell that Queequeg was hugging me.
service the soles of my boots were in a most miserable plight.  Too expensive
set of sea-dogs, many of whom without the slightest bashfulness had boarded
shades lighter; you might say a touch of satin wood is in him.  In the
shelf over the fire-place, and a tall harpoon standing at the head of the
shepherd's eye were fixed upon the magic stream before him.  Go visit the
ship were now out of sight of land?  Why did the old Persians hold the sea
shipmate (though but a sleeping-partner one, so far as this narrative is
ships, barques, brigs, schooners, and what not.  And as for going as cook, --
shook himself all over like a Newfoundland dog just from the water, and sat
should see the comical things he does upon reaching the seaport.  In
side hung a very large oil-painting so thoroughly besmoked, and every way
side stood a long, low, shelf-like table covered with cracked glass cases,
sign of The Trap!  Moving on, I at last came to a dim sort of light not far
signs and sounds gave me to understand that, if it pleased me, he would
silence.  And not only that, but they looked embarrassed.  Yes, here were a
similar adventure.  And what is it, thought I, after all!  It's only his
sir, by trying to induce me to do so knowingly, would thereby render yourself
skrimshander.  I sought the landlord, and telling him I desired to be
sleepy smoke.  Deep into distant woodlands winds a mazy way, reaching to
sleeves irregularly rolled up at various times --this same arm of his, I say,
slope, to show forth in one array, contrasting climates, zone by zone.
so turned out that we should sleep together, he must undress and get into bed
so, it would depend upon who the harpooneer might be, and that if he (the
sober cannibal than a drunken Christian.  Landlord, said I, tell him to
soft enough to suit me, and I did not know how all the planing in the world
some looking over the bulwarks glasses!
some satisfactory conclusion concerning it.  I can compare it to nothing but a
some time while employed in unlacing the bag's mouth.  This accomplished,
something like this: Grand Contested Election for the Presidency of the
something that completely fascinated my attention, and convinced me that he
sooty, so that I thought this fire-place made a very appropriate little shrine
sounded my pocket, and only brought up a few pieces of silver, --So,
speak more respectfully, not to say reverentially, of a broiled fowl than I
speak out and tell me who and what this harpooneer is, and whether I shall be
spell would be broken.  I knew not how this consciousness at last glided away
spoil the hilarity of his shipmates by his own sober face, yet upon the whole
spraining his wrist, and I told him for heaven's sake to quit -- the bed was
squares; he seemed to have been in a Thirty Years' War, and just escaped from
stands the vast arched bone of the whale's jaw, so wide, a coach might
stash his tomahawk there, or pipe, or whatever you call it; tell him to
stepmothers, and back I had to go to my room.  For several hours I lay there
still better seaward peep.  But these are all landsmen; of week days pent up
stood between me and the door, I would have bolted out of it quicker than ever
stood invitingly open.  It had a careless look, as if it were meant for the
stop at this same New Bedford, thence to embark on their voyage, it may as
stop smoking, in short, and I will turn in with him.  But I don't fancy having
story of Narcissus, who because he could not grasp the tormenting, mild image
stranger entered the room, and without looking towards the bed, placed his
straps in the first howling gale, when thou art driven, straps, buttons, and
street-stalls of the earth, picking up whatever random allusions to whales 
streets, and the sound of gay voices all over the house.  I felt worse and
strike unsplinterable
striking a whale.  Of things not properly belonging to the room, there was a
such offices to those who like them.  For my part, I abominate all honorable
sunset.  And that harpoon--so like a corkscrew now--was flung in Javan seas,
supernatural hand in mine were very similar, in their strangeness, to those
supernaturally quiet after these orgies, I began to congratulate myself upon
sure there is more in that man than you perhaps think for.  The bar-room was
swallow-tailed coat, girdled with a sailor-belt and sheath-knife.  Here comes
swinging sign had a poverty-stricken sort of creak to it, I thought that here
takes the harpoon from the bed corner, slips out the long wooden stock,
taking a long solitary walk on an empty stomach, in the negro heart of
taking my first daylight stroll through the streets of New Bedford.  In
tanning a white man into a purplish yellow one.  However, I had never been
tanning his hands.  Now when a country dandy like this takes it into his head
tell from what vile hole he had been coming?  Landlord!  I've changed my mind
tell me that that infernal harpooneer was a cannibal?  I thought ye know'd
tell, but his next movement was to crush himself --boots in hand, and hat on
tempestuous Euroclydon.  Euroclydon!  says old Dives, in his red silken
that I am in the habit of going to sea whenever I begin to grow hazy about the
that I ever heard of.  On the contrary, passengers themselves must pay.  And
that Lazarus should lie stranded there on the curbstone before the door of
that harpooneer is a dangerous man.  He pays reg'lar, was the rejoinder.
that he was a Southerner, and from his fine stature, I thought he must be
that indignity amount to, weighed, I mean, in the scales of the New
that no way of reaching that place would offer, till the following Monday.  As
that one of them held somewhat aloof, and though he seemed desirous not to
that too without delay.  I come to your house and want a bed; you tell me you
that way.  And the man that has anything bountifully laughable about him, be
that yarn to me --I'm not green.  May be not, taking out a stick and
that, Sal said it wouldn't do.  Come along here, I'll give ye a glim in a
that, in the dog-days, will mow his two acres in buckskin gloves for fear of
the Green Mountains.  A curious sight; these bashful bears, these timid
the Moluccas.  Yet Dives himself, he too lives like a Czar in an ice palace
the Red-Men, first sally out in canoes to give chase to the Leviathan?  And
the affrighted ladies.  Regent street is not unknown to Lascars and Malays;
the axe and snatch the whale-lance.  Many are as green as the Green Mountains
the bar-room accosted the grinning landlord very pleasantly.  I cherished no
the battery, where that noble mole is washed by waves, and cooled by
the bed, but he had disappeared.  Folding back the counterpane, I stooped
the bed-side, I got up and took off my monkey jacket, and then stood in the
the compasses of all those ships attract them thither?  Once more.  Say, you
the deep shadows of his eyes floated some reminiscences that did not seem to
the frost is on both sides, and of which the wight Death is the only
the harpooneer is a dark complexioned chap.  He never eats dumplings, he
the head of the table, too, it so chanced; as cool as an icicle.  To be sure
the idol up very unceremoniously, and bagged it again in his grego pocket
the inmates of the place one lodges in.  By reason of these things, then, the
the invisible police officer of the Fates, who has the constant surveillance
the light, that I plainly saw they could not be sticking-plasters at all,
the measure of the bench, and found that it was a foot too short; but that
the most part the Commodore on the quarter-deck gets his atmosphere at second
the neck.  I sat down on the side of the bed, and commenced thinking about
the outside, or whether thou observest it from that sashless window, where
the papered fire-board, sets up this little hunchbacked image, like a tenpin,
the picture lies thus tranced, and though this pine-tree shakes down its sighs
the rest into the public room, lighted his tomahawk-pipe, and was sitting
the rest of his toilet was soon achieved, and he proudly marched out of the
the revelry of his companions had mounted to its height, this man slipped
the same calling, all of kindred tastes --looking round as sheepishly at
the same squares as his face; his back, too, was all over the same dark
the segment made in the new-mown grass by a long-armed mower.  You shuddered
the sign of The Crossed Harpoons --but it looked too expensive and jolly
the street, and hear the sounds of the tinkling glasses within.  But go on,
the sun shining in at the window, and a great rattling of coaches in the
the thought of sleeping with him.  It was fair to presume that being a
the wash-stand centre-table, dipped it into water and commenced lathering his
the week, that quarter of the town proved all but deserted.  But presently I
the window, and both together formed a series of small whirlwinds in the
their huge bake-houses the pyramids.  No, when I go to sea, I go as a simple
then.  But be easy, be easy, this here harpooneer I have been tellin' you of
there floated into my inmost soul, endless processions of the whale, and, mid
there is all the difference in the world between paying and being paid.  The
there is no one who will
there quietly digesting and smoking with his inseparable hat on, when I
there, chattering his teeth against the curbstone for his pillow, and shaking
there, frozen with the most awful fears, not daring to drag away my hand;
there.  Further on, from the bright red windows of the Sword-Fish Inn, there
there.  Ha, Ishmael, muttered I, backing out, Wretched entertainment at the
these were rusty old whaling lances and harpoons all broken and deformed.
they say, and I suppose this Peter here is an emigrant from there.  As the
thick in a hard, asphaltic pavement, --rather weary for me, when I struck my
thieves entailed upon us.  But being paid, --what will compare with it?  The
thinks I, that must be the harpooneer, the infernal head-peddler.  But I lay
this blessed Saturday night, or rather Sunday morning, in peddling his head
this head-peddling harpooneer, and his door mat.  After thinking some time on
this in not only a civil but a really kind and charitable way.  I stood
this sort of thing is unpleasant enough.  It touches one's sense of honor,
this wild cannibal, tomahawk between his teeth, sprang into bed with me.  I
this.  I had been cutting up some caper or other --I think it was trying to
thoroughfares nigh the docks, any considerable seaport will frequently offer
those black squares on his cheeks.  they were stains of some sort or other.  At
though I confess there is considerable glory in that, a cook being a sort of
though I tried to move his arm --unlock his bridegroom clasp --yet, sleeping
though by no law of propriety that I ever heard of, is any man required to be
thought I; abed here in a strange house in the broad day, with a cannibal and
thought i to myself --the man's a human being just as I am: he has just as
thought, fancied, and sung of Leviathan, by many nations and generations,
three days landed from his Indian voyage.  That man next him looks a few
three mast-heads.  The opposite wall of this entry was hung all over with a
throwing open the little window towards the back of the entry, you at last
tidiest, certainly none of the finest.  I began to twitch all over.  Besides,
to address him, and demand a satisfactory answer concerning what seemed
to be seen, and nothing was to be heard; but a supernatural hand seemed
to beget in me an uncomfortable feeling towards the man whom
to churches.  He wanted to, last Sunday, but I stopped him just as he was
to explain the mystery.  Nay, to this very hour, I often puzzle myself with
to his canvas trowsers.  Ah, poor Hay-Seed!  how bitterly will burst those
to interest me on shore, I thought I would sail about a little and see the
to kill time, and with a bitter sigh got between the sheets.  I lay there
to lodge for the night, my dear Ishmael, be sure to inquire the price, and
to make a distinguished reputation, and joins the great whale-fishery, you
to me with his tomahawk, and throwing the clothes to one side.  He really did
to settle down in.  But I soon found that there came such a draught of cold
to the royal mast-head.  True, they rather order me about some, and make me
to view the queerest looking nondescripts from foreign parts.  Even in
tolerably well.  I then glanced round the room; and besides the bedstead and
tomahawk from the table, he examined the head of it for an instant, and then
tomahawk scattered the hot tobacco ashes about me till I thought
tomahawk!  But there was no time for shuddering, for now the savage went about
tossed craft.  Euroclydon, nevertheless, is a mighty pleasant zephyr to any
towards the land of Nod, when I heard a heavy footfall in the passage, and
transition is a keen one, I assure you, from the schoolmaster to a sailor,
travelled full forty feet, and at last was found imbedded in the hump.
treated me with so much civility and consideration, while I was guilty of
troubled himself with boots at all; but then, if he had not been still a
troubled nightmare of a doze; and slowly waking from it --half steeped in
true I take to be good evidence that this harpooneer is stark mad, and I've
try this experiment, if your caravan happen to be supplied with a metaphysical
tumbled into bed, and commended myself to the care of heaven.  Whether that
twelve o'clock.  The landlord chuckled again with his lean chuckle, and
unbecomingness of his hugging a fellow male in that matrimonial sort of style,
uncommonly shaggy and thick, and I thought a little damp, as though this
undeliverable, nameless perils of the whale; these, with all the attending
unendurable length of time.  But she was the best and most conscientious of
ungraspable phantom of life; and this is the key to it all.  Now, when I say
unheeded reel about the streets, you will see other sights still more
unimaginable sublimity about it that fairly froze you to it, till you
unimaginable, silent form or phantom, to which the hand belonged, seemed
unsheathes the head, whets it a little on his boot, and striding up to the
up in bed, stiff as a pike-staff, looking at me, and rubbing his eyes as if
upon learning that the little packet for Nantucket had already sailed, and
upon which Jonah mixed him a pitch-like potion of gin and molasses, which
upper hand of me, that it requires a strong moral principle to prevent me
urbane activity with which a man receives money is really marvellous,
us twain.  I now strove to rouse him --
uses of the public; so, entering, the first thing I did was to stumble over
ushered into a small room, cold as a clam, and furnished, sure enough, with a
using it there without ceremony; reaching over the table with it, to the
very civilized overture; but, the truth is, these savages have an innate
view into the room, and observing more and more the indecorous figure that
voyage, formed part of the grand programme of Providence that was drawn up a
wainscots, reminding one of the bulwarks of some condemned old craft.  On one
wait a bit, Skrimshander; I've
warm his blue hands by holding them up to the grand northern lights?  Would
warrior whalemen!  But as for Queequeg --why, Queequeg sat there among them --at
was a reality or a dream, I never could entirely settle.  The circumstance was
was a very dubious-looking, nay, a very dark and dismal night, bitingly cold
was no yoking them.  I then placed the first bench lengthwise along the only
was not at all limber, and that it glistened a good deal like polished ebony,
was now quite plain that he must be some abominable savage or other shipped
was of a dark purplish, yellow color, here and there stuck over with large,
was put out, to break the spell into which I had so long been bound.  But the
was stranded.  Where else but from Nantucket did those aboriginal whalemen,
was the answer.  I could not help it, but I began to feel suspicious of this
was the very spot for cheap lodgings, and the best of pea coffee.  It was a
watery part of the world.  It is a way I have of driving off the spleen, and
well be related that I, for one, had no idea of so doing.  For my mind was
were well worth unusual regarding.  He commenced dressing at top by donning his
were, reconciled to the fact; he jumped out upon the floor, and by certain
whale statements, however authentic, in these extracts, for veritable gospel
whaling voyage was welcome; the great flood-gates of the wonder-world swung
whaling; to my no small surprise, nearly every man maintained a profound
what in old times must have been a great central chimney with fire-places all
when I came to know of what fine steel the head of a harpoon is made, and how
when for scores on scores of miles you wade knee-deep among Tiger-lilies--what
when others were set down for magnificent parts in high tragedies, and short
whence they came.  In some things you would think them but a few hours old.
where but from Nantucket, too, did that first adventurous little sloop put
wherefore it was that after having repeatedly smelt the sea as a merchant
wherever you go, Ishmael, said I to myself, as I stood in the middle of a
whether thou lookest out at it from a glass window where the frost is all on
which I experienced on waking up and seeing Queequeg's pagan arm thrown round
which amazingly pleased me.  Besides though New Bedford has of late been
whittling a toothpick, but I rayther guess you'll be done brown if that ere
whom I had not as yet had a good look at.  They were nearly all whalemen;
will.  It is out of the idolatrous dotings of the old Egyptians upon broiled
wind Euroclydon kept up a worse howling than ever it did about poor Paul's
window, but it was the second floor back.  I am no coward, but what to make
winter scene. --It's the breaking-up of the ice-bound stream of Time.  But at
wish.  With other men, perhaps, such things would not have been inducements;
with the darkness towards the south --wherever in your wisdom you may conclude
with whom I conversed upon the subject.  The picture represents a Cape-Horner
withal; he doubtless has tarried whole weeks ashore.  But who could show a
withdrawals of his fingers (whereby he seemed to be scorching them badly),
without winking; and yet, here they sat at a social breakfast table --all of
working away at the knotted cords of the large bag I before spoke of as being
works I possess the only copy extant -- it maketh a marvellous difference,
worse --at last I got up, dressed, and softly going down in my stockinged
would almost fancy you trod some old craft's cockpits, especially of such a
would not do to be sellin' human heads about the streets when folks is goin'
wrapper --(he had a redder one afterwards) pooh, pooh!  What a fine frosty
yet carry on their bones unholy flesh.  It makes a stranger stare.  But,
yet ever thinking that if I could but stir it one single inch, the horrid
you design for my bedfellow --a sort of connexion, landlord, which is an
you found yourself in a wide, low, straggling entry with old-fashioned
you through. --It's the Black Sea in a midnight gale. --It's the unnatural
you what it is, landlord, said I, quite calmly, you'd better stop spinning
you will be so good as to unsay that story about selling his head, which if
your coming.  Here ye strike but splintered hearts together i{there}, ye shall
your friends who have gone before are clearing out the seven-storied heavens,
your own hammock, and cover yourself with your own blanket, and sleep in your
your patched boots are stopping the way.  So on I went.  I now by instinct
yourself comfortable now, and good night to ye.  I turned round from eyeing
yourself feel such a mystical vibration, when first told that you and your
