


















































     ( Foresail
     ( Stubb solus, and
     A goney, he replied.  Goney!  I never had heard that name before;  is it
     Ahab sitting alone, and gazing out.  I leave a white and turbid wake;
     But I doubt not, that leathern tally, meant for man, was taken off in
     By the Mainmast; Starbuck leaning
     Drink and pass!  he cried, handing the heavy charged flagon to the nearest
     French Sailor Hist, boys!  let's have a jig or two before we ride to anchor
     Had you followed Captain Ahab down into his
     I, Ishmael, was one of that crew; my shouts
     Meantime the sky darkens -- the wind rises.)
     Say what ye will, shipmate; I've sharp ears.  Aye, you are the chap, ain't
     Silently obeying the order, the three harpooneers now stood with the detached
     Stab me not with that keen steel!  Cant them; cant them over!  know ye not
     The cabin; by the stern windows;
     This elusive quality it is, which causes the thought of whiteness, when
     What is it that in the Albino man so peculiarly repels and often shocks the
     What the white whale was to
     against it.  My soul is more than matched; she's overmanned; and by a
     all around at the horizon, the White Steed gallopingly reviewed them with
     and in the Greek mythologies, Great Jove himself made incarnate in a
     another, the sperm whales, guided by some infallible instinct -- say, rather,
     are some remarkable documents that may be consulted.  Nevertheless, some there
     as a body.  There are those this day among them, who, though intelligent and
     cannot recall to him anything associated with the experience of former
     comes the music; now for it!  Azore Sailor ( Ascending, and pitching the
     follow.) Our captain stood upon the deck, A spy-glass in his hand, A
     from the pewter.  Now, three to three, ye stand.  Commend the murderous
     gained his distinctive appellation of the white Whale; a name, indeed,
     is, the intensifying agent in things the most appalling to mankind.  Is it
     last the Captain made a postman of it; tying a lettered, leathern tally
     lying in various attitudes, all singing in chorus.) Farewell and
     main hatches, I saw a regal, feathery thing of unspotted whiteness, and
     me through!  Peace!  ye revellers, and set the watch!  Oh, life! 'tis in an
     mending a brace.) Ha!  ha!  ha!  ha!  hem!  clear my throat! --I've been
     or if indeed he should ever be made to spout thick
     prolonged gale, in waters hard upon the Antarctic seas.  From my forenoon
     rises and discovers the watch standing, lounging, leaning, and
     scuttle,)  Star--bo--l-e-e-n-s, a-h-o-y!  Eight bells there below!  Tumble
     sleep or lie among the coils of rigging.  Oaths a-plenty.) Azore
     sleepy.) Don't know where it is.  French Sailor Beat thy belly, then, and
     some lurid woe would shrivel me up, had I it.  Yet is there hope.  Time and
     tambourine up the scuttle.)
     tell; with a treacherous hook and line, as the fowl floated on the sea.  At
     then.  But at last I awoke; and turning, asked a sailor what bird was this.
     there yet lurks an elusive something in the innermost idea of this hue, which
     under the windlass) Jollies?  Lord help such jollies!  Crish, crash!  there
     veins, as they are called; continuing their way along a given ocean-line
     we borrow the expressive hue of the shroud in which we wrap them.  Nor even
     with their harpoons in their hands, while his three mates stood at his side
    !  Hist!  Did you hear that noise, Cabaco?
 ( The half of them dance to the tambourine; some go below; some
'Twas not so hard a task.  I thought to find one stubborn, at
'em through it.  Tell 'em to avast dreaming of their lasses.  Tell 'em it's
( grimly) None.  St.  Jago's Sailor That Spaniard's mad or drunk.  But that
(eternal rest),  whence Requiem denominating the mass itself, and any
-- here's a hollow!  Men, ye seem the years; so brimming life is gulped and
--Olassen and Povelson --declaring the Sperm Whale not only to be a
--Take some one of your own size; don't pommel me!  No, ye've knocked me
--as if from encircling headlands shoals of combed white bears were swimming
--flutterings!  lip!  heart!  hip!  all graze: unceasing touch and go!  not
--give us a whiff, Tash. ( They cease dancing, and gather in clusters.
--however grand and wonderful, now quit it; --and take your way, ye nobler,
--long swallows, men; 'tis hot as Satan's hoof.  So, so; it goes round
--not thou nor I can bear the change!  How then, if so be transplanted to yon
--shirr!  shirr! --but spoken of once!  and only this evening -- it makes me
--that I feel; the jagged edge galls me so, my brain seems to beat against
--the Heeva-Heeva!  Ah!  low veiled, high palmed Tahiti!  I still rest me on thy
--why, as we have seen, it is at once the most meaning symbol of spiritual
.. < chapter xl 2  MIDNIGHT, FORECASTLE HARPOONERS AND SAILORS >
.. < chapter xli 9  MOBY DICK >
.. < chapter xlii 6  THE WHITENESS OF THE WHALE >
.. < chapter xliii 10  HARK >
.. < chapter xliv 12  THE CHART >
.. < chapter xxxix 2  FIRST NIGHT-WATCH FORE-TOP >
.. < chapter xxxvii 7  SUNSET >
.. < chapter xxxviii 26  DUSK >
.. <p 164 >
.. <p 165 >
.. <p 165 >
.. <p 166 >
.. <p 166 >
.. <p 167 >
.. <p 168 >
.. <p 169 >
.. <p 170 >
.. <p 171 >
.. <p 172 >
.. <p 173 >
.. <p 174 >
.. <p 175 >
.. <p 175 >
.. <p 176 >
.. <p 177 >
.. <p 178 >
.. <p 179 >
.. <p 180 >
.. <p 181 >
.. <p 182 >
.. <p 183 >
.. <p 184 >
.. <p 185 >
.. <p 185 >
.. <p 186 >
.. <p 187 >
.. <p 187n. >
.. <p 188 >
.. <p 188n. >
.. <p 189 >
.. <p 190 >
.. <p 191 >
.. <p 192 >
.. <p 193 >
.. <p 194 >
.. <p 194 >
.. <p 195 >
.. <p 195 >
.. <p 196 >
.. <p 197 >
Ahab, has been hinted; what, at times, he was to me, as yet remains unsaid.
Ahab, to that one end, did now possess a thousand fold more potency than ever
Albino is as well made as other men --has no substantive deformity --and yet
American flag, who have never hostilely encountered the Sperm Whale, but
And when we consider that other theory of the natural philosophers, that all
Arkansas duellist at his foe, blindly seeking with a six inch blade to reach
Aside from those more obvious considerations touching Moby Dick, which could
Avast the chorus!  Eight bells there!  d'ye hear, bell-boy?  Strike the bell
Bloody?  And those sublimer towers, the White Mountains of New Hampshire,
Burkes and blinded Bendigoes!  I will not say as school-boys do to bullies,
But he drilled deep down, and blasted all my reason out of me!  I think I see
But those wild eyes met his, as the bloodshot eyes of the prairie wolves
Cholo, the words above.  Hist!  did you hear that noise, Cabaco?  Take the
Dick; and a still greater number who, chancing only to hear of him distantly
Empire, Caesarian, heir to overlording Rome, having for the imperial color
Europe, does the tall pale man of the Hartz forests, whose changeless
For in his Natural History, the Baron himself affirms that at sight of the
For one, I gave myself up to the abandonment of the time and the place; but
French Sailor Merry-mad!  Hold up thy hoop, Pip, till I jump through it!
From hand to hand, the buckets went in the deepest silence, only broken by
Good night --good night! ( waving his hand, he moves from the window.)
Hand it me.  Why, now, this pewter had run brimming again, wer't not thou St.
Hark ye, Cabaco, there is somebody down in the after-hold that has not yet
Heaven, when the white fowl flew to join the wing-folding, the invoking, and
Here you are, Pip; and there's the windlass-bitts; up you mount!  Now, boys!
How the three pines shake!  Pines are the hardest sort of tree to live when
I must help him to it.  Will I, nill I, the ineffable thing has tied me to
I've willed, I'll do!  They think me mad --Starbuck does; but I'm demoniac, I
It is not probable that this monomania in him took its instant rise at the
It was the middle-watch; a fair moonlight; the seamen were standing in a
Jinglers, you say? --there goes another, dropped off; I pound it so.  China
Knife thee heartily!  big frame, small spirit!  All A row!  a row!  a row!
Lascar Sailor By Brahma!  boys, it'll be douse sail soon.  The sky-born,
Maltese Sailor ( Reclining and shaking his cap.) It's the waves --the
Moby Dick; those things had gone far to shake the fortitude of many brave
Most famous in our Western annals and Indian traditions is that of the White
Mountains and the Alleghanies.  At their flaming head he westward trooped it
On this hint, attempts have been made to construct elaborate migratory charts
Ophites of the east reverenced in their statue devil; -- Ahab did not fall down
Over unsounded gorges, through the rifled hearts of mountains, under
Perchance ye need it not.  Down lances!  And now, ye mates, I do appoint ye
Pizarro, this whiteness keeps her ruins for ever new; admits not the
Polar bear frightens us with so unnatural a contrast.  But even assuming all
Povelson, the superstitious belief in them is, in some vicissitudes of their
Protestant of the Middle American States, why does the passing mention of a
Sailor ( Dancing.) Go it, Pip!  Bang it, bell-boy!  Rig it, dig it, stig
Sailor ( Reclining on a mat.) Hail, holy nakedness of our dancing girls!
Sailor Aye; girls and a green! --then I'll hop with ye; yea, turn
Sailor Crack, crack, old ship!  so long as thou crackest, thou holdest!  Well
Sailor Rattle thy teeth, then, and pound away; make a pagoda of thyself.
Sailor Spell oh! --whew!  this is worse than pulling after whales in a calm
Southern whaling.  Nor is the pre-eminent tremendousness of the great Sperm
Spanish Sailor No; Daggoo showing his teeth.  Daggoo ( springing) Swallow
Sperm Whale when beneath the surface remain, in great part, unaccountable to
Sperm Whale, all fish (sharks included) are struck with the most lively
Starbuck to Stubb; from Stubb to Flask.  It seemed as though, by some
State-secret come.  Now, in his heart, Ahab had some glimpse of this, namely:
Steady, helmsman!  steady.  This is the sort of weather when brave hearts snap
Steed of the Prairies; a magnificent milk-white charger, large-eyed,
Stubb and Flask looked sideways from him; the honest eye of Starbuck fell
Stubb?  Here's a carcase.  I know not all that may be coming, but be it what
Tashtego ( with a whiff) A row a'low, and a row aloft --Gods and men --both
That it was only then, on the homeward voyage, after the encounter, that the
The irons!  take them; hold them while I fill!  Forthwith, slowly going from
The three mates quailed before his strong, sustained, and mystic aspect.
There's naught so sweet on earth --heaven may not match it! --as those swift
Throw yourselves!  Legs!  Legs!  Iceland Sailor I don't like your floor,
Turk, no hired Venetian or Malay, could have smote him with more seeming
Vitus' imp --away, thou ague!  Advance, ye mates!  Cross your lances full
We are the lads to hunt him up his whale!  All Aye!  aye!  Old Manx Sailor
Whale anywhere more feelingly comprehended, than on board of those prows which
Whale, by chance caught sight of him; in the beginning of the thing they had
White Friar or a White Nun, evoke such an eyeless statue in the soul?  Or what
White Whale was to them, or how to their unconscious understandings, also, in
Who'd go climbing after chestnuts now?  But there they go, all cursing, and
With reference to the Polar bear, it may possibly be urged by him who would
[ A burst of revelry from the forecastle.] Oh, God!  to sail with such a
a certain royal pre-eminence in this hue; even the barbaric, grand old kings
a joyful day; and though in other mortal sympathies and symbolizings, this
a long distance, to those who knew him.  The rest of his body was so streaked,
a row!  Plunge in with ye!  English Sailor Fair play!  Snatch the Spaniard's
a silent, superstitious dread; the shrouded phantom of the whitened waters is
a single news-telling sail of any sort; the inordinate length of each
abhorred white whale, he pitted himself, all mutilated, against it.  All that
aboundingly responded to the old man's ire --by what evil magic their souls
accessory and strange glory which invests it in the White Steed and Albatross.
accomplishment of that monomaniac thought of his soul.  Now, to any one not
according to specific accounts, he had over and over again evinced in his
accumulated associations, with whatever is sweet, and honorable, and sublime,
actually inherent in substances, but only laid on from without; so that all
additional courses over spaces that before were blank.  At intervals, he would
addressed to the fancy, why, in reading the old fairy tales of Central
adieu to you, Spanish ladies!  Farewell and adieu to you, ladies of Spain!  Our
adoring cherubim!
advancing keel.  It was in the midst of this repose, that Archy, one of the
afraid than the isle fort at Cattegat, put there to fight the Baltic with
aft!  Methinks it pictures life.  Foremost through the sparkling sea shoots on
against the rocks with such violence as to cause instantaneous death.  And
agencies, fail to enlist among her forces this crowning attribute of the
ahab and anguish lay stretched together in one hammock, rounding in mid
albatross.  So that by no possibility could Coleridge's wild Rhyme have had
alive; it cannot be much matter of surprise that some whalemen should go
all my means are sane, my motive and my object mad.  Yet without power to
all predestinated.  I heard not all his talk with Starbuck; but to my poor
all the more fell for that in his frantic morbidness he at last came to
all the waves were women, then I'd go drown, and chassee with them evermore!
altogether, the remembrance of her cathedral-toppling earthquakes; nor the
am madness maddened!  That wild madness that's only calm to comprehend
among the frantic crew; when, waving his free hand to them, they all
and contributes to the daily state of kings and queens drawn by milk-white
and currents; and thereby calculating the driftings of the sperm whale's
and gashed soul bled into one another; and so interfusing, made him mad.
and her suburban avenues of house-walls lying over upon each other, as a
and marshals in the van of countless cohorts that endlessly streamed it over
and places in which, on various former voyages of various ships, sperm whales
and portents concerning him, not a few of the fishermen recalled, in reference
and recklessness in Stubb, and the pervading mediocrity in Flask.  Such a
and say to himself, how d'ye do?  Partners!  I must have partners!  Sicilian
and shadings which there met his eye; and with slow but steady pencil trace
and spotted, and marbled with the same shrouded hue, that, in the end, he had
and the Holy One that sitteth there white like wool; yet for all these
and to cries and maledictions against the white whale, the spirits
and vaguely, without the specific details of any certain calamity, and
and worship it like them; but deliriously transferring its idea to the
animosity; and when he received the stroke that tore him, he probably but
any other whale of that species.  But at length, such calamities did ensue in
appalled me.  But how can I hope to explain myself here; and yet, in some
appalling of all brutes.  Or, if for any reason thought to be corporeally
appeals with such power to the soul; and more strange and far more portentous
appears.  So that in many cases such a panic did he finally strike, that few
approaching to certainties, concerning the timeliest day to be upon this or
archangel wings, as if to embrace some holy ark.  Wondrous flutterings and
are just crossing swords, pell-mell they'll go lunging presently.  Danish
arises from the circumstance, that the irresponsible ferociousness of the
around him, and oars and men both whirling in the eddies; one captain,
around him.  And of all these things the Albino whale was the symbol.  Wonder
around suddenly, and, bearing down upon them, either stave their boats to
as if indeed that pallor were as much like the badge of consternation in the
as much their insufferable foe as his; how all this came to be --what the
as of late the Sperm Whale fishery had been marked by various and not
as seldom or never for a whole twelvemonth or more on a stretch, to encounter
ashore, and keeled hulls split at sea.  Our captain has his birth-mark; look
aspects, does Nature in her least palpable but not the less malicious
assaults.  More than all, his treacherous retreats struck more of dismay than
assert, then, that in the wondrous bodily whiteness of the bird chiefly
at home doing now?  Crying its eyes out? --Giving a party to the last arrived
attacked; therefore it was, that those who by accident ignorantly gave
aught to do with those mystical impressions which were mine, when I saw
awfulness to another mind almost solely consists in this one phenomenon,
aye, sir, just through with this job --coming.
backwoodsman of the West, who with comparative indifference views an
bailiff in the market-place!  Nor, in some things, does the common, hereditary
ballroom of it.  Dance on, lads, you're young; I was once. 3d Nantucket
battle to Moby Dick; such hunters, perhaps, for the most part, were content
be to lose oneself in such inhuman solitudes.  Much the same is it with the
bear of the poles, and the white shark of the tropics; what but their smooth,
bearing the one figure of a snow-white charger; and the great Austrian
beauty, as if imparting some special virtue of its own, as in marbles,
been divulged, even to the most erudite research; so the hidden ways of the
been seen on deck; and I suspect our old Mogul knows something of it too.  I
before me.  Well
before the angels, I bowed myself; the white thing was so white, its wings
before us a leper; and like wilful travellers in Lapland, who refuse to wear
behind him, so that he cannot even see it, but only smells its wild animal
behind; so in that broad madness, not one jot of his great natural intellect
black.  Daggoo What of that?  Who's afraid of black's afraid of me!  I'm
blood, such a sight would be but a ghastly deception; for again in
bloody hunt of whales.  Gnawed within and scorched without, with the infixed,
bluff-bowed and fearless as this mighty steed.  Whether marching amid his aides
brawlers!  Humph!  Belfast Sailor A row!  arrah a row!  The Virgin be blessed,
break the fixed trance of whiteness.  Not so the sailor, beholding the
brides, the benignity of age; though among the Red Men of America the giving
brought out; almost every night some pencil marks were effaced, and others
brow the piled entablatures of ages.  Wind ye down there, ye prouder, sadder
brute; for, analysed, that heightened hideousness, it might be said, only
bucket, will ye, Archy?  what noise d'ye mean?  There it is again --under the
burnish a little brighter the noble merit of the poem and the poet.  I
but immortal (for immortality is but ubiquity in time); that though groves
but of all sailors, they are by all odds the most directly brought into
but once take the full-forced shock, then mine own electric thing, that had
but the deadliest ill.
butterfly cheeks of young girls; all these are but subtile deceits, not
cabin after the squall that took place on the night succeeding that wild
call him Requin.  I remember the first albatross I ever saw.  It was during a
can go.  The subterranean miner that works in us all, how can one tell
can't be, or else in his one case our old Mogul's fire-waters are somewhat
cannibals --morally enfeebled also, by the incompetence of mere unaided virtue
cannon upon its own mad mark; so that far from having lost his strength,
captain's commanded. -- 1st Nantucket Sailor Oh, boys, don't be sentimental;
captive king; so like a Caryatid, he patient sits, upholding on his frozen
captured far north in the Pacific, in whose bodies have been found the barbs
cassock; and though among the holy pomps of the Romish faith, white is
certain it is, that with the mad secret of his unabated rage bolted up and
chalices!  Bestow them, ye who are now made parties to this indissoluble
chance clue to conduct us to the hidden cause we seek?  Let us try.  But in a
chapter about whiteness is but a white flag hung out from a craven soul; thou
character of the day, does the bare mention of Whitsuntide marshal in the
chart, with one tithe of such marvellous precision.  Though, in these cases,
cheer and howl on his underlings to the attack.  But be all this as it may,
cheerful greenness of complete decay; spreads over her broken ramparts the
chewed boats, and the sinking limbs of torn comrades, they swam out of the
climes, whiteness typifies the majesty of Justice in the ermine of the Judge,
clothed him with divineness; and that this divineness had that in it which,
clouds of spiritual wonderment and pale dread, in which that white phantom
collated, then the migrations of the sperm whale would be found to correspond
collected front, however pale, and issued his calm orders once again; and
collision forced to turn towards home, and for long months of days and weeks,
color, and at the same time the concrete of all colors; is it for these
colored and coloring glasses upon their eyes, so the wretched infidel gazes
come what will, one comfort's always left -- that unfailing comfort is, it's
completely escaped them; to some minds it was not an unfair presumption, I
comprehensible form.  It was the whiteness of the whale that above all things
conceivable that this glorious thing is utterly unknown to men ashore! 
consider that the mystical cosmetic which produces every one of her hues, the
consternation to every other creature in the sea, but also to be so incredibly
contact with whatever is appallingly astonishing in the sea; face to face
continual sight of the snow-howdahed Andes conveys naught of dread, except,
contradictory speculations regarding them, especially concerning the mystic
cope-stones, and crosses all adroop (like canted yards of anchored fleets);
cordon, extending from one of the fresh-water butts in the waist, to the
cordon, whose post was near the after-hatches, whispered to his neighbor, a
courageous enough in offering battle to the Greenland or Right whale, would
creature stands invested in the fleece of celestial innocence and love; and
creatures in his green northern home, so that the strange muskiness he smells
crew, so officered, seemed specially picked and packed by some infernal
damned!  Pass along that return bucket.  There again --there it is! --it sounds
damned, most subtly and most malignantly!  damned in the midst of Paradise!
dance over your grave, I will --that's the bitterest threat of your
day has the original prestige of the Sperm Whale, as fearfully distinguished
death in this shark, and the mild deadliness of his habits, the French
deathful whaleboat's bow -- Death to Moby Dick!  God hunt us all, if we do not
decline a contest with the Sperm Whale; at any rate, there are plenty of
deepeningly contracted; like the unabated Hudson, when that noble Northman
deified Nature absolutely paints like the harlot, whose allurements cover
delirium at sea was likewise popularly ascribed to a kindred cause.  And so
den into the blessed light and air; even then, when he bore that firm,
determinate.  Nevertheless, so well did he succeed in that dissembling, that
did in the end incorporate with themselves all manner of morbid hints, and
dim, random way, explain myself I must, else all these chapters might be
directly from the Latin word for white, all Christian priests derive the name
disorderly way they were sprinkled over the entire watery circumference,
dispersed; and Ahab retired within his cabin.
dissembling was only subject to his perceptibility, not to his will
distant oregon?  no: but here thou beholdest even in a dumb brute, the
divorced from more kindly associations, and coupled with any object terrible
does not feel the
done!  Let me touch the axis.  So saying, with extended arm, he grasped the
done!  The mate there holds ye to it stiffly.  He's no more
down, and I am up again; but ye have run and hidden.  Come forth from behind
downcast and hooded with new-fallen snow?  Or, to the unread, unsophisticated
downright.  In vain!  cried Ahab; but, maybe, 'tis well.  For did ye three
dread in my soul.  A wild, mystical, sympathetical feeling was in me; Ahab's
eight, thou Pip!  thou blackling!  and let me call the watch.  I've the sort
either wholly or in great part stripped of all direct associations calculated
else ye swerve yourselves!  man has ye there.  Swerve me?  The path to my
elucidated by the following examples.  First: The mariner, when drawing nigh
enjoy.  Gifted with the high perception, I lack the low, enjoying power;
enough in the earthly make and incontestable character of the monster to
especially when exhibited under any form at all approaching to muteness or
essence sits in bearded state; an antique buried beneath antiquities, and
evangelist, rides on his pallid horse.  Therefore, in his other moods,
even made significant of gladness, for among the Romans a white stone marked
even the modern Christians ascribe one-half of the worlds; which the ancient
ever-brimming goblet's rim, the warm waves blush like wine.  The gold brow
every apparent symptom of alarm, he had several times been known to turn
every one of them, almost, as boldly and fearlessly lowered for him, as for
excellently.  It spiralizes in ye; forks out at the serpent-snapping eye.
existence; only a few of them, comparatively, had knowingly seen him; while
experience of all mankind fail to bear witness to the supernaturalism of this
eye Starbuck then looked something as I the other evening felt.  Be sure the
eye, as that sometimes he is loathed by his own kith and kin!  It is that
eyes, methought I peeped to secrets which took hold of God.  As Abraham
faculties; but under precisely similar circumstances, let him be called from
fain go still deeper into this matter, that it is not the whiteness,
fancy such long, dreary, speechless processions of slow-pacing pilgrims,
fantastic towers of man's upper earth, his root of grandeur, his whole awful
fast, even there, as he sailed, raving in his hammock.  In a strait-jacket,
fatal encounter, Ahab had cherished a wild vindictiveness against the whale,
fatalities had attended his chase.  But though similar disasters, however
fatality to help him to his monomaniac revenge.  How it was that they so
feline thing.  When you think it fled, it may have but become transfigured
felt the agonizing bodily laceration, but nothing more.  Yet, when by this
ferocious as continually to be athirst for human blood.  Nor even down to so
fiery emotion accumulated within the Leyden jar of his own magnetic life.
fill the scuttle-butt.  Standing, for the most part, on the hallowed precincts
filliping to others.  We sing; they sleep --aye, lie down there, like
final monomania seized him, seems all but certain from the fact that, at
fine whales, Hand, boys, over hand!  So, be cheery, my lads!  may your hearts
fire worshippers, the white forked flame being held the holiest on the altar;
fixed purpose is laid with iron rails, whereon my soul is grooved to run.
flaky whiteness makes them the transcendent horrors they are?  That ghastly
flashing cascade of his mane, the curving comet of his tail, invested him
flows narrowly, but unfathomably through the Highland gorge.  But, as in his
food; and, also, calling to mind the regular, ascertained seasons for hunting
four-and-twenty elders stand clothed in white before the great white throne,
fowl.  But how had the mystic thing been caught?  Whisper it not, and I will
frequented by the Sperm Whale fishermen.  But not all of them knew of his
frequently seen, but never with such emotions as when I beheld the Antarctic
from all other species of the leviathan, died out of the minds of the whalemen
from such a fiendish man!  They were bent on profitable cruises, the profit
from the Quarter-Deck Eight bells there, forward! 2nd Nantucket Sailor
from the battle if offered.  One of the wild suggestings referred to, as at
frosts of mountains; the desolate shiftings of the windrowed snows of
full of a soft, dewy, distant dreaminess?  Or why, irrespective of all
fully acquainted with the ways of the leviathans, it might seem an absurdly
furnished him.  A most imperial and archangelical apparition of that unfallen,
gay and fleeting As bubbles that swim, on the beaker's brim, And break on the
gentlemen and noblemen, my valiant harpooneers.  Disdain the task?  What, when
ghostliness of repose in that creature, when beheld in his ordinary moods,
glances of warm, wild bosoms in the dance, when the over-arboring arms hide
glories of those primeval times when Adam walked majestic as a god,
goes the jib-stay!  Blang-whang!  God!  Duck lower, Pip, here comes the royal
gone.  Steward, refill!  Attend now, my braves.  I have mustered ye all round
gracious thing he will by whiteness, no man can deny that in its profoundest
grasshopper!  Long-Island Sailor Well, well, ye sulkies, there's plenty more
great principle of light, for ever remains white or colorless in itself, and
great, unflattering laureate, Nature.
green navies and the green-skulled crews!  Well, well; belike the whole
green the first day i brought ye thence; now worn and wilted quite.  Ah me!
ground-tier butts.  At 'em again!  There, take this copper-pump, and hail
had been captured or seen.  While thus employed, the heavy pewter lamp
had gone up with the rest; my oath had been welded with theirs; and
had perished.  That before living agent, now became the living instrument.  If
half-formed foetal suggestions of supernatural agencies, which eventually
harbor the conceit, that for those very reasons he was all the better
hard!  Jimmini, what a squall!  But those chaps there are worse yet --they are
harpooneers, I dare say, gay as a frigate's pennant, and so am I--fa, la!
has been denominated the White Squall.  Nor, in some historic instances, has
has been made the symbol of the divine spotlessness and power; by the Persian
hatches --don't you hear it --a cough--it sounded like a cough.  Cough be
have mercy on this small black boy down here; preserve him from all men that
have no bowels to feel fear!
having been inflicted by an unintelligent agent.  Judge, then, to what pitches
he broods within his sternward cabin, builded over the dead water of the
he had sanely brought to bear upon any one reasonable object.  This is much;
he swung to the mad rockings of the gales.  And, when running into more
head of a crew, too, chiefly made up of mongrel renegades, and castaways, and
heard Stubb tell Flask, one morning watch, that there was something of that
hearken with a childish fire-side interest and awe, to the wild, strange
hearthstone, or aught hospitable beneath that part of the sun; in such
heathen crew that have small touch of human mothers in them!  Whelped
heightens the effect of that passage in Froissart, when, masked in the snowy
hence, by bringing together two such opposite emotions in our minds, the
here I don't.  Fine prospects to 'em; they're on the road to heaven.  Hold on
high, pyramidical white hump.  These were his prominent features; the tokens
high-tide Ganges turned to wind!  Thou showest thy black brow, Seeva!
him in particular latitudes; could arrive at reasonable surmises, almost
him; tows me with a cable I have no knife to cut.  Horrible old man!  Who's
himself before it, you would have seen him intently study the various lines
himself blind at the monumental white shroud that wraps all the prospect
his cabin, Ahab thus pondered over his charts.  Almost every night they were
his hammock to view his ship sailing through a midnight sea of milky whiteness
his hidden self, raved on.  Human madness is oftentimes a cunning and most
his hot heart's shell upon it.
his impious end; but feel that
his lofty, overscorning carriage.  He was the elected Xerxes of vast herds of
his mates thanked God the direful madness was now gone; even then, Ahab, in
his old acquaintances on shore but half dreamed of what was lurking in him
his orders, mind ye that.  I heard old Ahab tell him he must always kill a
his pursuers; and from time to time have originated the most curious and
hopeless task thus to seek out one solitary creature in the unhooped oceans of
horizon.  In that ring Cain struck Abel.  Sweet work, right work!  No?  Why
horrible to him as a real ghost; in vain the lead assures him he is still off
horribles!  I feel funny.  Fa, la!  lirra, skirra!  What's my juicy little pear
hour like this, with soul beat down and held to knowledge, --as wild,
however the general experiences in the fishery may amend such reports as
hue.  It cannot well be doubted, that the one visible quality in the aspect of
human race itself, giving the white man ideal mastership over every dusky
hunt Moby Dick to his death!  The long, barbed steel goblets were lifted;
hunters believe that, could he be closely observed and studied throughout the
hunters were willing to encounter the perils of his jaw.  But there were still
hunters, to whom the story of the White Whale had eventually come.  Nor did
i, the wearer, see not its far flashings; but darkly feel that i wear that,
ideality, who happens to be but loosely acquainted with the peculiar
idealized significance it calls up a peculiar apparition to the soul.  But
identify with him, not only all his bodily woes, but all his intellectual and
if
immensities of the universe, and thus stabs us from behind with the thought
immitigable, and supernatural revenge.  Here, then, was this grey-headed,
in Blanket Bay.  What say ye?  There comes the other watch.  Stand by all
in invariability to those of the herring-shoals or the flights of swallows.
in itself, to heighten that terror to the furthest bounds.  Witness the white
in our superstitions do we fail to throw the same snowy mantle round our
in some peaceful valley of Vermont, far removed from all beasts of prey --why
in some sort revive a noble custom of my fisherman fathers before me.  O men,
in that of terra firma, wild rumors abound, wherever there is any adequate
incapacitated for that, yet such an one would seem superlatively competent to
incarnation of all those malicious agencies which some deep men feel eating in
individualizing tidings concerning Moby Dick.  It was hardly to be doubted,
inland Strello mountain in Portugal (near whose top there was said to be a
instances, such seemed the White Whale's infernal aforethought of ferocity,
instinct of the knowledge of the demonism in the world.  Though
intangible malignity which has been from the beginning; to whose dominion
intervals during the passage, he was a raving lunatic; and, though unlimbed
into some still subtler form.  Ahab's full lunacy subsided not, but
invested Moby Dick with new terrors unborrowed from anything that visibly
iron part of their harpoons, some three feet long, held, barbs up, before him.
irresistible arm drag?  What skiff in tow of a seventy-four can stand still?
is it that upon the sunniest day, if you but shake a fresh buffalo robe
is there apart from the traditions of dungeoned warriors and kings (which
is under him again.  Yet where is the mariner who will tell thee, Sir, it was
is wrapped by influences all tending to make his fancy pregnant with many a
it has been believed by some whalemen, that the nor' west passage, so long a
it so very unlikely, that far from distrusting his fitness for another whaling
it was not this night in particular that, in the solitude of
it will, I'll go to it laughing.  Such a waggish leering as lurks in all your
it!  Hark ye, lad --fleet interlacings of the limbs --lithe swayings --coyings
it's bad for the digestion!  Take a tonic, follow me! ( Sings, and all
it, quig it, bell-boy; Make fire-flies; break the jinglers!  Pip
it, would be inevitably to be torn into a quick eternity.  on this head, there
it?  To analyse it, would seem impossible.  Can we, then, by the citation of
its intensity completely overpowered all the rest; and yet so mystical and
itself!  The prophecy was that I should be dismembered; and--Aye!  I lost this
japonicas, and pearls; and though various nations have in some way recognised
jingle all over like my tambourine --that anaconda of an old man swore 'em in
keyed in him, Ahab had purposely sailed upon the present voyage with the
kill, or change, or shun the fact; he likewise knew that to mankind he did
king's ghost in supernatural distress.  Through its inexpressible, strange
knife in hand, he had but given loose to a sudden, passionate, corporal
knife!  A ring, a ring!  Old Manx Sailor Ready formed.  There!  the ringed
knowing that after repeated, intrepid assaults, the White Whale had escaped
known to both American and English whale-ships, and as well a thing placed
lake in which the wrecks of ships floated up to the surface); and that still
landscape of snows --a colorless, all-color of atheism from which we shrink?
last coming to be linked with the White Whale in the minds of the
late a time as Cuvier's, were these or almost similar impressions effaced.
latent horror in thee!  but 'tis not me!  that horror's out of me!  and with
latitudes and longitudes, does the name of the White Sea exert such a
latitudes and longitudes, pursuing too such a calling as he does, the whaleman
league.  Ha!  Starbuck!  but the deed is done!  Yon ratifying sun now waits to
leap down the crags and drown the villages? --The blast!  the blast!  Up,
left behind him with the Cape Horn swells, and he came forth from his dark
leg.  I now prophesy that I will dismember my dismemberer.  Now, then, be the
legendary record of
legendary times thrown its shadow before it; we find some book naturalists
legerdemain in the powers of frost and air, he, shivering and half
legs!  Pip!  little Pip!  hurrah with your tambourine!  Pip ( Sulky and
light, it lights not me; all loveliness is anguish to me, since I can ne'er
like that chosen star which every evening leads on the hosts of light.  The
like two or three sleepers turning over, now!  Caramba!  have done,
lines and courses on the wrinkled charts, some invisible pencil was also
lips while meeting.  a brave stave that --who calls?  mr.  starbuck?  Aye, aye,
lirra, skirra!  Oh-- We'll drink to-night with hearts as light, To love, as
literally justified by his vivid aspect, when seen gliding at high noon
little bruited ashore, were by no means unusual in the fishery; yet, in most
living experience of living men, the prodigies related in old times of the
locker in the transom, and bringing out a large wrinkled roll of yellowish
long in working. 5th Nantucket Sailor What's that I saw--lightning?  Yes.
long lacquered mild afternoons on the waves, followed by the gaudiest and yet
lords it over all below!  Oh!  I plainly see my miserable office, --to obey,
lurks the secret of the spell; a truth the more evinced in this, that by a
madman!  Insufferable sting, that sanity should ground arms on such a field!
magniloquent ascriptions of dominion; and the modern kings of Siam unfurling
malice.  Small reason was there to doubt, then, that ever since that almost
malignity, which whale, after doing great mischief to his assailants, had
man can follow another into these halls.  And though, doubtless, some at least
man; he calls that fun: humph!  I save my sweat.  Old Manx Sailor I wonder
many of them adventurously pushing their quest along solitary latitudes, so
mat, but the soft soil has slid!  I saw thee woven in the wood, my mat!
match itself must needs be wasting!  What I've dared, I've willed; and what
matter like this, subtlety appeals to subtlety, and without imagination no
matter, so the whale fishery surpasses every other sort of maritime life, in
maty; it's too springy to my taste.  I'm used to ice-floors.  I'm sorry to
meet the eye of their leader, ere he rushes on at their head in the trail of
might readily have prophesied it --for when I clapped my eye upon his skull I
mighty birth.  No wonder, then, that ever gathering volume from the mere
miles, and passed a thousand shores, you would not come to any chiselled
minds of his more desperate hunters were impelled, when amid the chips of
modes whereby, after sounding to a great depth, he transports himself with
monuments and splintered crosses.  But thou sayest, methinks this white-lead
more be seen.  But even stripped of these supernatural surmisings, there was
more loathsome than terrific, to the dumb gloating of their aspect.  So that
more terrible than all the whooping imps of the Blocksburg?  Nor is it,
more wonderful story of the Arethusa fountain near Syracuse (whose waters
moreover intensified by his delirium, that his mates were forced to lace him
most brain-battering fight!  Dry heat upon my brow?  Oh!  time was, when as the
most maddens and torments; all that stirs up the lees of things; all truth
most men, yet few perhaps were entirely conscious of them at the time, and
mostly, the disastrous encounter between Ahab and the whale had hitherto been
mounts up!  she wearies with her endless hill.  Is, then, the crown too heavy
much more strongly on the imagination of an untravelled American, than those
murderous monster against whom I and all the others had taken our oaths of
muskiness --why will he start, snort, and with bursting eyes paw the ground in
nameless, interior volition, he would fain have shocked into them the same
narrow-flowing monomania, not one jot of Ahab's broad madness had been left
naturally grow out of the very body of all surprising terrible events, --as the
naught.  Though in many natural objects, whiteness refiningly enhances
never fail!  While the bold harpooneer is striking the whale!  Mate's Voice
never!  But some time after, I learned that goney was some seaman's name for
night-women, that beat head-winds round corners.  O Christ!  to think of the
not but occasionally awaken in any man's soul some alarm, there was another
not so much the fear of striking hidden rocks, as the fear of that hideous
not the fierce-fanged tiger in his heraldic coat can so stagger courage as the
not yet have we solved the incantation of this whiteness, and learned why it
nothing but the charnel-house within; and when we proceed further, and
now long dissemble; in some sort, did still.  But that thing of his
of Pegu placing the title Lord of the White Elephants above all their other
of a leg, yet such vital strength yet lurked in his Egyptian chest, and was
of annihilation, when beholding the white depths of the milky way?  Or is it,
of harpoons darted in the Greenland seas.  Nor is it to be gainsaid, that in
of inflamed, distracted fury the
of mouth for that --the hogshead mouth.  So, so, ( thrusts his head down the
of one part of their sacred vesture, the alb or tunic, worn beneath the
of plumage.  I cannot tell, can only hint, the things that darted through me
of spears should be planted in his flanks, he would still swim away unharmed;
of the imaginative impressions about to be presented may have been shared by
of the quarter-deck, they were careful not to speak or rustle their feet.
of the sacred White Dog was by far the holiest festival of their theology,
of the sperm whale.  Besides, when making a passage from one feeding-ground to
of the white belt of wampum was the deepest pledge of honor; though in many
of us.  Hoe corn when you may, I say.  All legs go to harvest soon.  Ah!  here
oftentimes hard to induce long practised Right whalemen to embark in the
old Mogul has fixed him, too.  I twigged it, knew it; had had the gift,
old grudge makes me touchy. ( Advancing.) Aye, harpooneer, thy race is the
on such or such a meridian, a Sperm Whale of uncommon magnitude and
one and the same instant of time.  Nor, credulous as such minds must have been,
one officer to the other, he brimmed the harpoon sockets with the fiery waters
one only and all-engrossing object of hunting the White Whale.  Had any one of
operating without medium upon matter, would touch all objects, even tulips and
or devouring amputations --but fatal to the last degree of fatality; those
or right-mindedness in Starbuck, the invulnerable jollity of indifference
order ye; ye will it.  Cut your seizings and draw the poles, ye harpooneers!
other and more vital practical influences at work.  Not even at the present
other earthly hues --every stately or lovely emblazoning --the sweet tinges of
other funereal music.  Now, in allusion to the white, silent stillness of
other leviathans might be hopefully pursued, yet to chase and point lance at
other storied structures, its neighbors --the Byward Tower, or even the
other world, as of mortal trepidation here.  And from that pallor of the dead,
otherwise than but naturally grieved, and that to the quick, with the
over him, he cries; --aye, he would be a democrat to all above; look, how he
over inside of ye --nothing else.  Look to the bucket!
over the fancy, while that of the Yellow Sea lulls us with mortal thoughts of
pale waters, paler cheeks, where'er I sail.  The envious billows sidelong
pallor unrestingly glides through the green of the groves --why is this phantom
peculiarity is most vividly hit by the French in the name they bestow upon
perhaps --either from professional inexperience, or incompetency, or timidity,
perhaps aught else.  For, when swimming before his exulting pursuers, with
perhaps expired from out me.  Perchance, too, it would have dropped ye dead.
perhaps, in the mere fancying of the eternal frosted desolateness reigning at
perils of this new and daring warfare; such men protesting that although
perils; for what knows he, this New England colt, of the black bisons of
personified, and made practically assailable in Moby Dick.  He piled upon the
phantom futures!  Stand by me, hold me, bind me, O ye blessed influences!
phantoms; all ghosts rising in a milk-white fog --Yea, while these terrors
phrensies of affright?  There is no remembrance in him of any gorings of wild
plumbs the blue.  The diver sun --slow dived from noon, --goes down; my soul
popularize profundities, and all truth is profound.  Winding far down from
popularly regarded.  And as for those who, previously hearing of the White
prairies, which this instant they may be trampling into dust.  Thus, then,
prairies; all these, to Ishmael, are as the shaking of that buffalo robe to
precise time of his bodily dismemberment.  Then, in darting at the monster,
presented himself, always to the bravest Indians he was the object of
primitively pursued in the North; seated on their hatches, these men will
probability.  For as the secrets of the currents in the seas have never yet
problem to man, was never a problem to the whale.  So that here, in the real
prophet and the fulfiller one.  That's more than ye, ye great gods, ever
prudent isle were inclined to
qualified and set on edge, for a pursuit so full of rage and wildness as the
quarried out of it!  Spanish Sailor ( Aside.) He wants to bully, ah! --the
quenchless feud seemed mine.  With greedy ears I learned the history of that
race from Adam down; and then, as if his chest had been a mortar, he burst
rain; nor the sight of her wide field of leaning spires, wrenched
ratification of his purpose with his crew, you would have seen him go to a
reality for them to cling to.  And as the sea surpasses the land in this
reaped away ahab's leg, as a mower a blade of grass in the field.  No turbaned
reasons that there is such a dumb blankness, full of meaning, in a wide
rebelling; and worse yet, to hate with touch of pity!  For in his eyes I read
refer to piles of old log-books beside him, wherein were set down the seasons
remarkable hue, nor yet his deformed lower jaw, that so much invested the
rending, goring bison herds are as present as to the deserted wild foal of the
repeated disastrous repulses, all accumulating and piling their terrors upon
right into it!  English Sailor Blood!  but that old man's a grand old cove!
rigid pallor of an apoplexy that fixes its own distortions.  I know that, to
rolls swashing 'gainst the side!  Stand by for reefing, hearties!  the winds
roses, with its own blank tinge --pondering all this, the palsied universe lies
round him, then he feels
round its neck, with the ship's time and place; and then letting it escape.
rumors which sometimes circulate there.  For not only are whalemen as a body
run down; my heart the all-controlling weight, I have no key to lift again.
sadder souls, to those vast Roman halls of Thermes; where far beneath the
sailing in the pequod on the present voyage, sat brooding on his brow.  Nor is
sails in all imaginations?  Not Coleridge first threw that spell; but God's
same hue is made the emblem of many touching, noble things --the innocence of
saw it.  Well, Stubb, wise Stubb --that's my title --well, Stubb, what of it,
say, that the whale in question must have been no other than moby Dick.  Yet
scenery of the Antarctic seas; where at times, by some infernal trick of
scuttle-butt near the taffrail.  In this manner, they passed the buckets to
sea charts, spread them before him on his screwed-down table.  Then seating
sea from Nantucket; you're the chap.  Grin away; we'll see what turns up.
seaman.  The crew alone now drink.  Round with it, round!  Short draughts
secret intelligence from the Deity --mostly swim in
seize us, let us add, that even the king of terrors, when personified by the
seizing the line-knife from his broken prow, had dashed at the whale, as an
separate voyage; the irregularity of the times of sailing from home; all
separately regarded, which heightens the intolerable hideousness of that
shifted to any other soil, and here there's none but the crew's cursed clay.
ship, and for ever threw shifting gleams and shadows of lines upon his
shipmate, will ye?  It's the three soaked biscuits ye eat for supper turning
shipwrecked, instead of rainbows speaking hope and solace to his misery,
shirr!  Here have I heard all their chat just now, and the white whale
shivered.  Once more, and finally, the replenished pewter went the rounds
sir -- ( Aside) he's my superior, he has his too, if I'm not mistaken. -- Aye,
sit upon it.  Drink, ye harpooneers!  drink and swear, ye men that man the
sky?  Hear I the roaring streams from Pirohitee's peak of spears, when they
sleepiest of sunsets?  Or, to choose a wholly unsubstantial instance, purely
small gold-fish has its glassy globe.  His heaven-insulting purpose, God may
small indeed.  For, owing to the large number of whale-cruisers; the
small-headed, bluff-chested, and with the dignity of a thousand monarchs in
smitten tree gives birth to its fungi; but, in maritime life, far more than
snow's caps turn to jig it now.  They'll shake their tassels soon.  Now would
snow-white bull; and though to the noble Iroquois, the midwinter sacrifice
so wide, and in those for ever exiled waters, I had lost the miserable
so?  Because a laugh's the wisest, easiest answer to all that's queer; and
solecism of terms there are birds called grey albatrosses; and these I have
some dim, unsuspected way, he might have seemed the gliding great demon of
some of these instances it has been declared that the interval of time between
some of those instances wherein this thing of whiteness --though for the time
somewhere by the sharkish sea.  The white whale is their demigorgon.  Hark!
somewhere those things must exist.  Though in many of its aspects this visible
sort in the wind.  Tish!  the bucket!
souls!  question that proud, sad king!  A family likeness!  aye, he did beget
soundings; heart and helm they both go down; he never rests till blue water
spangled with golden gleamings.  Nor was it his unwonted magnitude, nor his
specially employed in the celebration of the Passion of our Lord; though in
spectralness
spine, and meet it! ( Leaps to his feet.) Portuguese Sailor How the sea
spiritual exasperations.  The White Whale swam before him as the monomaniac
splinters, or drive them back in consternation to their ship.  Already several
split jibs!  tear yourselves!  Tashtego ( Quietly smoking.) That's a white
squall!  the squall!  jump, my jollies! ( They scatter.) Pip ( shrinking
squall, something as they burst a waterspout with a pistol --fire your ship
stampedoes of her frantic seas: nor the tearlessness of arid skies that never
stand before me; and I their match.  Oh, hard!  that to fire others, the
stand there with your irons; and ye, stout mariners, ring me in, that I may
steeds; though even in the higher mysteries of the most august religions it
stem him.  And as if the now tested reality of his might had in former
still further in their superstitions; declaring Moby Dick not only ubiquitous,
storm-lashed guns, on which the sea-salt cakes! 4th Nantucket Sailor He has
stormed his general sanity, and carried it, and turned all its concentred
straight wake, yet the arbitrary vein in which at these times he is said to
strangely tallies with the same quality in the Polar quadruped.  This
strike the imagination with unwonted power.  For, it was not so much his
strikes more of panic to the soul than that redness which affrights in blood.
stronger I shouted, and more did I hammer and clinch my oath, because of the
subtle demonisms of life and thought; all evil, to crazy Ahab, were visibly
such a furious trope may stand, his special lunacy
such an apparition as the Sperm Whale was not for mortal man.  That to attempt
such ripe, bursting grapes.  Sicilian Sailor ( Reclining.) Tell me not of
such vast altitudes, and the natural conceit of what a fearfulness it would
such vast swiftness to the most widely distant points.  It is a thing well
suddenly and nervously twitched them; meanwhile, glancing intently from
sufferable latitudes, the ship, with mild stun'sails spread, floated across
sunlight, that smiled on, as if at a birth or a bridal.  His three boats stove
sunrise nobly spurred me, so the sunset soothed.  No more.  This lovely
sunset skies and woods; yea, and the gilded velvets of butterflies, and the
superstitiously inclined, was the unearthly conceit that Moby Dick was
surrenderest to a hypo, Ishmael.  Tell me, why this strong young colt, foaled
suspended in chains over his head, continually rocked with the motion of the
sweet cardinals!  your own condescension, that shall bend ye to it.  I do not
swell to whelm my track; let them; but first I pass.  Yonder, by the
swim, generally embraces some few miles in width (more or less, as the vein
symbol of their faction, the desperate White Hoods of Ghent murder their
symbolize whatever grand or
tales of
taste, observe ye, else come satiety.  Eh, Pagan? ( Nudging.) Tahitan
terrible casualty which had overtaken him.  The report of his undeniable
terrible.  From its snowy aspect, the gauntleted ghost of the Southern Seas
terror.  But there are other instances where this whiteness loses all that
terrors, and often in the precipitancy of their flight dash themselves
than the ugliest abortion.  Why should this be so?  Nor, in quite other
that I wear?  this Iron Crown of Lombardy.  Yet is it bright with many a gem;
that as in essence whiteness is not so much a color as the visible absence of
that bird upon our deck.  For neither had I then read the Rhyme, nor knew
that by its indefiniteness it shadows forth the heartless voids and
that dazzlingly confounds. 'Tis iron --that I know--not gold. 'Tis split, too
that every dismembering or death that he caused, was not wholly regarded as
that fish.  The Romish mass for the dead begins with Requiem eternam
that ground in search of his prey.  So assured, indeed, is the fact concerning
that intensified terror.  As for the white shark, the white gliding
that several vessels reported to have encountered, at such or such a time, or
that spotless, faithful creature being held the purest envoy they could send
that suddenly sweeping his sickle-shaped lower jaw beneath him, Moby Dick had
the Sperm Whale fishery at large, than to the individual cause.  In that way,
the Vision of St.  John, white robes are given to the redeemed, and the
the art of human malice omitted so potent an auxiliary.  How wildly it
the bare mention of that name, while the thought of Virginia's Blue Ridge is
the bird to be an albatross.  Yet, in saying this, I do but indirectly
the bison; but, alas!  only to fall into the hidden snare of the Indian.
the coasts of foreign lands, if by night he hear the roar of breakers, starts
the common apprehension, this phenomenon of whiteness is not confessed to be
the dead which most appals the gazer, is the marble pallor lingering there;
the direction taken by any one whale be straight as a surveyor's parallel, and
the fathom-deep life of the whale.  That captain was Ahab.  And then it was,
the frightened colt!  Though neither knows where lie the nameless things of
the gay, embattled, bantering bow, but only to drag dark Ahab after it, where
the goblet end?  Turn up the socket!  So, so; now, ye cup-bearers, advance.
the great Pope washes the feet of beggars, using his tiara for ewer?  Oh, my
the group; he stood for an instant searchingly eyeing every man of his crew.
the halyards!  in top-gallant sails!  Stand by to reef topsails!  All The
the infernal orgies!  that revelry is forward!  mark the unfaltering silence
the least; but my one cogged circle fits into all their various wheels, and
the muffled rollings of a milky sea; the bleak rustlings of the festooned
the number who as yet had actually and knowingly given battle to him, was
the occasional flap of a sail, and the steady hum of the unceasingly
the periodicalness of the sperm whale's resorting to given waters, that many
the plains, like an Ohio; or whether with his circumambient subjects browsing
the prime agent in exaggerating the terror of objects otherwise terrible; nor
the resurrection; they must kiss their last, and come to judgment.  That's
the same imperial hue; and though this pre-eminence in it applies to the
the same snow-white quadruped in the royal standard; and the Hanoverian flag
the same sorcery, however modified; --can we thus hope to light upon some
the seas of life, --all this to explain, would be to dive deeper than Ishmael
the soft feeling of the human in me, yet will I try to fight ye, ye grim,
the solid metal; aye, steel skull, mine; the sort that needs no helmet in the
the spread through the whole world-wide whaling-fleet of the special
the strangest, saddest city thou can'st see.  For Lima has taken the white
the tranquil tropics, and, to all appearances, the old man's delirium seemed
the two assaults could not have exceeded very many days.  Hence, by inference,
the way -- that's it; thy throat ain't spoiled with eating Amsterdam butter.
the wonderfulness and fearfulness of the
them, till they are left living on with half a heart and half a lung.  That
them.  Alone, in such remotest waters, that though you sailed a thousand
then, God, mad'st thou the ring?  Mate's Voice from the Quarter Deck Hands by
then, how soon would their aghast and righteous souls have wrenched the ship
therefore may not be able to recall them now.  Why to the man of untutored
these assaults --not restricted to sprained wrists and ancles, broken limbs,
these fabulous narrations are almost fully equalled by the realities of the
these, with other circumstances, direct and indirect, long obstructed
these; yet in their full terribleness, even to the bloodthirsty item of
they not only eye its greatest marvels, but, hand to jaw, give battle to
they revolve.  Or, if you will, like so many ant-hills of powder, they all
thine, mannikin!  White skin, white liver!  Spanish Sailor ( meeting him)
things, nay, the very veil of the Christian's Deity; and yet should be as it
thinking over it ever since, and that ha, ha's the final consequence.  Why
this capstan; and ye mates, flank me with your lances; and ye harpooneers,
this in our old Mogul's wine; it's quite as deadening to some as
this mere aspect of all-pervading whiteness makes him more strangely hideous
this noble horse, that it was his spiritual whiteness chiefly, which so
this planet.  But not so did it seem to Ahab, who knew the sets of all tides
this to be true; yet, were it not for the whiteness, you would not have
though commanding worship, at the same time enforced a certain nameless
though the line of advance be strictly confined to its own unavoidable,
though without dissent this point be fixed, how is mortal man to account for
thought, or rather vague, nameless horror concerning him, which at times by
thousands of miles from Oregon, still when he smells that savage musk, the
three cup-bearers to my three pagan kinsmen there --yon three most honorable
three level, radiating lances at their crossed centre; while so doing,
throbbings shook it.  Though bodily unharmed, it uttered cries, as some
throned on torsoes!  So with a broken throne, the great gods mock that
through a dark blue sea, leaving a milky-way wake of creamy foam, all
throw cold water on the subject; but excuse me.  Maltese Sailor Me too;
tide flow wide.  The hated whale has the round watery world to swim in, as the
to Moby Dick, the earlier days of the Sperm Whale fishery, when it was
to ascribe the peculiar terror he bred, more, as it were, to the perils of
to be counted down in dollars from the mint.  He was intent on an audacious,
to hunt him!  Oh, thou big white God aloft there somewhere in yon darkness,
to impart to it aught fearful, but, nevertheless, is found to exert over us
to the Great Spirit with the annual tidings of their own fidelity; and though
to the iron way!
to the unimaginative mind is there aught of terror in those appearances whose
to vigilance, and feels just enough of trepidation to sharpen all his
to ye; come and see if ye can swerve me.  Swerve me?  ye cannot swerve me,
too, all the added moodiness which always afterwards, to the very day of
torrents' beds, unerringly I rush!  Naught's an obstacle, naught's an angle
tossed pack of cards; --it is not these things alone which make tearless Lima,
tracing lines and courses upon the deeply marked chart of his forehead.  But
transit over the widest watery spaces, the outblown rumors of the White Whale
trembling reverence and awe.  Nor can it be questioned from what stands on
tribe; and though, besides all this, whiteness has been
true histories of these deadly encounters.  For not only do fabulous rumors
ubiquitous; that he had actually been encountered in opposite latitudes at
unaccompanied, secluded White Whale had haunted those uncivilized seas mostly
unbounded prairie sheeted with driven snow, no shadow of tree or twig to
uncommon bulk that so much distinguished him from other sperm whales, but, as
undeniable dark side of mankind --devilish dark at that.  No offence.  Daggoo
unensanguined billows hundreds of leagues away, his unsullied jet would once
unexempt from that ignorance and superstitiousness hereditary to all sailors;
unfrequent instances of great ferocity, cunning, and malice in the monster
ungodly old man, chasing with curses a Job's whale round the world, at the
universality.  What I mean by these two statements may perhaps be respectively
unrelenting fangs of some incurable idea; such an one, could he be found,
untutored things are forced to feed --Oh, life! 'tis now that I do feel the
up!  Dutch Sailor Grand snoozing to-night, maty; fat night for that.  I mark
upon authoritative record years ago by Scoresby, that some whales have been
veil; and there is a higher horror in this whiteness of her woe.  Old as
viewing of those gallant whales That blew at every strand.  Oh, your tubs in
views what seems a boundless church-yard grinning upon him with its lean ice
violence and revenge.  For some time past, though at intervals only, the
vocation, revived in the minds of the hunters.  So that overawed by the rumors
voyage, on account of such dark symptoms, the calculating people of that
wag thy ears.  Jig it, men, I say; merry's the word; hurrah!  Damn me, won't
wake, and further on, hunted by its wolfish gurglings.  The long howl thrills
warm nostrils reddening through his cool milkiness; in whatever aspect he
warping memories of traditions and of towns.  Long I gazed at that prodigy
was elsewhere thrown out --a peculiar snow-white wrinkled forehead, and a
was this conceit altogether without some faint show of superstitious
was threading a maze of currents and eddies, with a view to the more certain
watch below, I ascended to the overclouded deck; and there, dashed upon the
wedge aside.  I would up heart, were it not like lead.  But my whole clock's
well done; almost drained.  That way it went, this way it comes.  Hand it me
well nigh ineffable was it, that I almost despair of putting it in a
were believed to have come from the Holy Land by an underground passage);
were possessed, that at times his hate seemed almost theirs; the White Whale
were simultaneously quaffed down with a hiss.  Starbuck paled, and turned, and
were substituted.  For with the charts of all four oceans before him, Ahab
were, who even in the face of these things were ready to give chase to Moby
were.  I laugh and hoot at ye, ye cricket-players, ye pugilists, ye deaf
western world, which to the eyes of the old trappers and hunters revived the
whale with natural terror, as that unexampled, intelligent malignity which,
whale's white hump the sum of all the general rage and hate felt by his whole
whaleman.  Forced into familiarity, then, with such prodigies as these; and
whalemen, especially among those whaling nations not sailing under the
when with ivory leg he stepped ashore at last, no Nantucketer thought him
whence, in peculiar moods, comes that gigantic ghostliness over the soul at
where's your girls?  Who but a fool would take his left hand by his right,
whereby, even in the limitless, uncharted seas, he revealed his identity, at
whether those jolly lads bethink them of what they are dancing over.  I'll
which the mystic sign gives forth such hints; yet with me, as with the colt,
while yet all a-rush to encounter the whale, could see naught in that brute
white curds of the whale's direful wrath into the serene, exasperating
white-shrouded bear or shark.  Bethink thee of the albatross, whence come those
whiteness it is which imparts such an abhorrent mildness, even
whiteness that so stirred me?  Second: To the native Indian of Peru, the
whiteness which invests him, a thing expressed by the name he bears.  The
whither leads his shaft by the ever shifting, muffled sound of his pick?  Who
who by those rumors, at least, had heard of the White Whale, few of those
whose sole knowledge of the leviathan is restricted to the ignoble monster
wild horses, whose pastures in those days were only fenced by the Rocky
wild rumors of all sorts fail to exaggerate, and still the more horrify the
will not wholly account for it) that makes the White Tower of London tell so
winter that dreary, howling Patagonian Cape; then it was, that his torn body
with a hooked, Roman bill sublime.  At intervals, it arched forth its vast
with housings more resplendent than gold and silver-beaters could have
with malice in it; all that cracks the sinews and cakes the brain; all the
with such undeviating exactitude, that no ship ever sailed her course, by any
with their lances, and the rest of the ship's company formed a circle round
within the very heart of this spiked Hotel de Cluny where we here stand
without superstitious accompaniments, were sufficiently hardy not to flee
world seems formed in love, the invisible spheres were formed in fright.  But
world's a ball, as you scholars have it; and so 'tis right to make one
world; were the logs for one voyage of the entire whale fleet carefully
would seem the very man to dart his iron and lift his lance against the most
wrinkled brow, till it almost seemed that while he himself was marking out
yard!  It's worse than being in the whirled woods, the last day of the year;
ye then at the fiery hunt?
ye, that heard the hum of the old Quakeress's knitting-needles fifty miles at
ye, ye young exiled royalties; and from your grim sire only will the old
yet Ahab's larger, darker, deeper part remains unhinted.  But vain to
yonder, boys, there's another in the sky --lurid-like, ye see, all else pitch
you dance?  Form, now, Indian-file, and gallop into the double-shuffle?
you will yet see that-- Ha!  boy, come back?  bad pennies come not sooner.
your boats, my boys, And by your braces stand, And we'll have one of those
your cotton bags!  I have no long gun to reach ye.  Come, Ahab's compliments
your white squalls, they.  White squalls?  white whale, shirr!
