



























































































     ( Foresail
     ( Stubb solus, and
     ( enter Ahab: Then, all.) It
     A goney, he replied.  Goney!  I never had heard that name before;  is it
     Ahab sitting alone, and gazing out.  I leave a white and turbid wake;
     And what do ye next, men?  Lower away, and after him!  And what tune is
     Aye, Starbuck; aye, my hearties all round; it was Moby Dick that dismasted
     But I doubt not, that leathern tally, meant for man, was taken off in
     But ere stepping into the cabin doorway below, he pauses, ships a new face
     By the Mainmast; Starbuck leaning
     Charley profanely hinted they were humbug.  Be it known that, waiving all
     Concerning the officers of the
     Dinner, Mr. Starbuck, disappears into the cabin.  When the last echo of his
     Drink and pass!  he cried, handing the heavy charged flagon to the nearest
     French Sailor Hist, boys!  let's have a jig or two before we ride to anchor
     Good!  cried Ahab, with a wild approval in his tones; observing the hearty
     Had you followed Captain Ahab down into his
     I, Ishmael, was one of that crew; my shouts
     Imperial Electors, so these cabin meals were somehow solemn meals, eaten in
     It is chiefly with his name that I now have to do.  Philologically considered,
     It is noon; and Dough-Boy, the
     It was during the more pleasant weather,
     Meantime the sky darkens -- the wind rises.)
     Narwhale; IV., the Thrasher; V., the Killer.  BOOK II. ( Octavo), CHAPTER
     OCTAVOES.  These embrace the whales of middling magnitude, among which at
     Of modern standers-of-mast-heads we have but a lifeless set; mere stone,
     Of these so called Whalebone whales, there would seem to be several
     Razor Back Whale; VI.  the Sulphur Bottom Whale.  BOOK I. ( Folio),
     Say what ye will, shipmate; I've sharp ears.  Aye, you are the chap, ain't
     Silently obeying the order, the three harpooneers now stood with the detached
     Stab me not with that keen steel!  Cant them; cant them over!  know ye not
     Suddenly he came to a halt by the bulwarks, and inserting his bone leg into
     The Huzza Porpoise.  II.  The Algerine Porpoise.  III.  The Mealy-mouthed
     The cabin; by the stern windows;
     This elusive quality it is, which causes the thought of whiteness, when
     Vengeance on a dumb brute!  cried Starbuck, that simply smote thee from
     Whale; III.  the Fin Back Whale; IV.  the Hump-backed Whale; V. the
     What is it that in the Albino man so peculiarly repels and often shocks the
     What the white whale was to
     against it.  My soul is more than matched; she's overmanned; and by a
     all around at the horizon, the White Steed gallopingly reviewed them with
     and in the Greek mythologies, Great Jove himself made incarnate in a
     and tightly, almost convulsively grasping it, addressed them thus: -- All ye
     another, the sperm whales, guided by some infallible instinct -- say, rather,
     are accounted a lucky omen.  If you yourself can withstand three cheers at
     are some remarkable documents that may be consulted.  Nevertheless, some there
     as a body.  There are those this day among them, who, though intelligent and
     book i. ( folio), chapter iv. ( hump back). --this whale is often seen on
     cannot recall to him anything associated with the experience of former
     chase the white whale?  art not game for Moby Dick?  I am game for his
     comes the music; now for it!  Azore Sailor ( Ascending, and pitching the
     copestone to posterity.  God keep me from ever completing anything.  This
     could almost see that thought turn in him as he turned, and pace in him as he
     druggists as you nowadays buy an ounce of rhubarb.  When, as I opine, in the
     follow.) Our captain stood upon the deck, A spy-glass in his hand, A
     from the pewter.  Now, three to three, ye stand.  Commend the murderous
     gained his distinctive appellation of the white Whale; a name, indeed,
     hay, and especially as they do not spout, I deny their credentials as
     is famous for his tail, which he uses for a ferule in thrashing his foes.  He
     is, the intensifying agent in things the most appalling to mankind.  Is it
     last the Captain made a postman of it; tying a lettered, leathern tally
     lying in various attitudes, all singing in chorus.) Farewell and
     main hatches, I saw a regal, feathery thing of unspotted whiteness, and
     me through!  Peace!  ye revellers, and set the watch!  Oh, life! 'tis in an
     mending a brace.) Ha!  ha!  ha!  ha!  hem!  clear my throat! --I've been
     mostly float.  For one, I used to lounge up the rigging very leisurely,
     nor, on the other hand, link with it any fish hitherto authoritatively
     not sufficiently distinguish him, since the sperm whale also has a hump,
     or if indeed he should ever be made to spout thick
     prolonged gale, in waters hard upon the Antarctic seas.  From my forenoon
     requirest a little lower layer.  If money's to be the measurer, man, and the
     rises and discovers the watch standing, lounging, leaning, and
     scuttle,)  Star--bo--l-e-e-n-s, a-h-o-y!  Eight bells there below!  Tumble
     shoals and what rocks must be shunned.  It may seem unwarrantable to couple in
     sleep or lie among the coils of rigging.  Oaths a-plenty.) Azore
     sleepy.) Don't know where it is.  French Sailor Beat thy belly, then, and
     some lurid woe would shrivel me up, had I it.  Yet is there hope.  Time and
     tambourine up the scuttle.)
     tell; with a treacherous hook and line, as the fowl floated on the sea.  At
     that my vengeance will fetch a great premium here!  He smites his chest,
     the chick that's in him pecks the shell.  T'will soon be out.  The hours
     them.  I call them thus, because he always swims in hilarious shoals, which
     then.  But at last I awoke; and turning, asked a sailor what bird was this.
     there yet lurks an elusive something in the innermost idea of this hue, which
     to send everybody aft.  Sir!  said the mate, astonished at an order seldom or
     under the windlass) Jollies?  Lord help such jollies!  Crish, crash!  there
     veins, as they are called; continuing their way along a given ocean-line
     we borrow the expressive hue of the shroud in which we wrap them.  Nor even
     whale oil, an inferior article in commerce.  Among the fishermen, he is
     when every foremast-hand has clutched a whetstone?  Ah!  constrainings seize
     with their harpoons in their hands, while his three mates stood at his side
    !  Hist!  Did you hear that noise, Cabaco?
 ( The half of them dance to the tambourine; some go below; some
'Twas not so hard a task.  I thought to find one stubborn, at
'em through it.  Tell 'em to avast dreaming of their lasses.  Tell 'em it's
( Duodecimo), CHAPTER I ( Huzza Porpoise). -- This is the common porpoise
( Mealy-mouthed Porpoise).  The largest kind of Porpoise; and only found in
( Octavo), CHAPTER II. ( Black Fish). --I give the popular fishermen's names
( Right Whale).--In one respect this is the most venerable of the
( grimly) None.  St.  Jago's Sailor That Spaniard's mad or drunk.  But that
(ere the final truck was put to it) as that great stone mast of theirs may be
(eternal rest),  whence Requiem denominating the mass itself, and any
(subdivisible into Chapters), and these shall comprehend them all, both small
-- here's a hollow!  Men, ye seem the years; so brimming life is gulped and
--Another instance of a curiously named whale, so named I suppose from his
--Olassen and Povelson --declaring the Sperm Whale not only to be a
--Take some one of your own size; don't pommel me!  No, ye've knocked me
--Under this head I reckon a monster which, by the various names of
--as if from encircling headlands shoals of combed white bears were swimming
--flutterings!  lip!  heart!  hip!  all graze: unceasing touch and go!  not
--give us a whiff, Tash. ( They cease dancing, and gather in clusters.
--however grand and wonderful, now quit it; --and take your way, ye nobler,
--however that may be --it would certainly be very convenient to him for a
--long swallows, men; 'tis hot as Satan's hoof.  So, so; it goes round
--not thou nor I can bear the change!  How then, if so be transplanted to yon
--shirr!  shirr! --but spoken of once!  and only this evening -- it makes me
--that I feel; the jagged edge galls me so, my brain seems to beat against
--the Heeva-Heeva!  Ah!  low veiled, high palmed Tahiti!  I still rest me on thy
--why, as we have seen, it is at once the most meaning symbol of spiritual
.. < chapter xl 2  MIDNIGHT, FORECASTLE HARPOONERS AND SAILORS >
.. < chapter xli 9  MOBY DICK >
.. < chapter xlii 6  THE WHITENESS OF THE WHALE >
.. < chapter xliii 10  HARK >
.. < chapter xliv 12  THE CHART >
.. < chapter xxxiii 24  THE SPECKSYNDER >
.. < chapter xxxiv 15  THE CABIN-TABLE >
.. < chapter xxxix 2  FIRST NIGHT-WATCH FORE-TOP >
.. < chapter xxxv 2  THE MAST-HEAD >
.. < chapter xxxvi 21  THE QUARTER-DECK >
.. < chapter xxxvii 7  SUNSET >
.. < chapter xxxviii 26  DUSK >
.. <p 132 >
.. <p 132n. >
.. <p 133 >
.. <p 134 >
.. <p 135 >
.. <p 136 >
.. <p 137 >
.. <p 137n. >
.. <p 138 >
.. <p 139 >
.. <p 140 >
.. <p 141 >
.. <p 142 >
.. <p 142 >
.. <p 143 >
.. <p 144 >
.. <p 145 >
.. <p 145 >
.. <p 146 >
.. <p 147 >
.. <p 148 >
.. <p 149 >
.. <p 150 >
.. <p 151 >
.. <p 152 >
.. <p 153 >
.. <p 154 >
.. <p 155 >
.. <p 156 >
.. <p 157 >
.. <p 157 >
.. <p 158 >
.. <p 159 >
.. <p 160 >
.. <p 161 >
.. <p 162 >
.. <p 163 >
.. <p 164 >
.. <p 165 >
.. <p 165 >
.. <p 166 >
.. <p 166 >
.. <p 167 >
.. <p 168 >
.. <p 169 >
.. <p 170 >
.. <p 171 >
.. <p 172 >
.. <p 173 >
.. <p 174 >
.. <p 175 >
.. <p 175 >
.. <p 176 >
.. <p 177 >
.. <p 178 >
.. <p 179 >
.. <p 180 >
.. <p 181 >
.. <p 182 >
.. <p 183 >
.. <p 184 >
.. <p 185 >
.. <p 185 >
.. <p 186 >
.. <p 187 >
.. <p 187n. >
.. <p 188 >
.. <p 188n. >
.. <p 189 >
.. <p 190 >
.. <p 191 >
.. <p 192 >
.. <p 193 >
.. <p 194 >
.. <p 194 >
.. <p 195 >
.. <p 195 >
.. <p 196 >
.. <p 197 >
Above, Linnaeus has given you those items.  But in brief, they are these:
According to magnitude I divide the whales into three primary BOOKS
Admiral Nelson, also, on a capstan of gun-metal, stands his mast-head in
Ahab thereby motioned Starbuck's plate towards him, the mate received his
Ahab, has been hinted; what, at times, he was to me, as yet remains unsaid.
Ahab, to that one end, did now possess a thousand fold more potency than ever
Albino is as well made as other men --has no substantive deformity --and yet
American flag, who have never hostilely encountered the Sperm Whale, but
And when we consider that other theory of the natural philosophers, that all
Arkansas duellist at his foe, blindly seeking with a six inch blade to reach
Aside from those more obvious considerations touching Moby Dick, which could
Avast the chorus!  Eight bells there!  d'ye hear, bell-boy?  Strike the bell
BOOK I. ( Folio), CHAPTER VI. ( Sulphur Bottom). -- Another retiring
BOOK II. ( Octavo), CHAPTER III. ( Narwhale), that is, Nostril whale.
BOOK III. ( Duodecimo).  DUODECIMOES. --These include the smaller whales.  I.
Babylon; and to have been Belshazzar, not haughtily but courteously,
Belshazzar's, for Belshazzar was not the greatest.  Who has but once dined
Blanc, or Louis the Devil.  Great Washington, too, stands high aloft on his
Bloody?  And those sublimer towers, the White Mountains of New Hampshire,
Burkes and blinded Bendigoes!  I will not say as school-boys do to bullies,
But he drilled deep down, and blasted all my reason out of me!  I think I see
But those wild eyes met his, as the bloodshot eyes of the prairie wolves
But you cannot prove either of these surmises to be correct.  My own opinion
CHAPTER I. ( Sperm Whale). --This whale, among the English of old vaguely
Captain Ahab?  And he have one, two, tree --oh!  good many iron in him hide,
Cetology than any other detached bodily distinctions, which the whale, in his
Cetology.
Cholo, the words above.  Hist!  did you hear that noise, Cabaco?  Take the
Coast, and various other parts of the world, designated by them Right Whale
Coffin said it was used for an ice-piercer; for the Narwhale, rising to the
Coffin, of Nantucket, both messmates of mine in a certain voyage, and they
Commonly, after seeing the harpooneers furnished with all things they
Cruising Grounds.  Some pretend to see a difference between the Greenland
Daggoo seated on the floor, for a bench would have brought his hearse-plumed
Daggoo, and Queequeg had looked on with even more intense interest and
Dick that took off thy leg?  Who told thee that?  cried Ahab; then pausing,
Dick ye have seen --Moby Dick-- Moby Dick!  Captain Ahab, said Starbuck, who,
Dick; and a still greater number who, chancing only to hear of him distantly
Dough-Boy almost looked to see whether any marks of teeth lurked in his own
Dough-Boy's memory by snatching him up bodily, and thrusting his head into a
Dugongs (Pig-fish and Sow-fish of the Coffins of Nantucket) are included by
Duodecimoes are infallibly whales, by the terms of my definition of what a
Egyptians were a nation of mast-head standers, is an assertion based upon the
Empire, Caesarian, heir to overlording Rome, having for the imperial color
Europe, does the tall pale man of the Hartz forests, whose changeless
Fat-Cutter; usage, however, in time made it equivalent to Chief Harpooneer.
Feegee fish.  He sometimes takes the great Folio whales by the lip, and hangs
Fin-Back, Tall-Spout, and Long-John, has been seen almost in every sea and is
Flask, have for ever departed from my stomach.  I am an officer; but, how I
For in his Natural History, the Baron himself affirms that at sight of the
For one, I gave myself up to the abandonment of the time and the place; but
For with little external to constrain us, the innermost necessities in our
Fourth-of-July crowd.  Their appearance is generally hailed with delight by
French Sailor Merry-mad!  Hold up thy hoop, Pip, till I jump through it!
From hand to hand, the buckets went in the deepest silence, only broken by
Good night --good night! ( waving his hand, he moves from the window.)
Greenland Whale which the first syllable of the word literally expresses.  In
Greenland Whale; the Black Whale; the Great Whale; the True Whale; the Right
Greenland-men were; yet that disadvantage is greatly counterbalanced by the
Hand it me.  Why, now, this pewter had run brimming again, wer't not thou St.
Hark ye, Cabaco, there is somebody down in the after-hold that has not yet
He lived in the world, as the last of the Grisly Bears lived in settled
Heaven, when the white fowl flew to join the wing-folding, the invoking, and
Here you are, Pip; and there's the windlass-bitts; up you mount!  Now, boys!
His oil is much like that of the common porpoise.  Beyond the DUODECIMO, this
How the three pines shake!  Pines are the hardest sort of tree to live when
However contracted, that definition is the result of expanded meditation.  A
I am aware that down to the present time, the fish styled Lamatins and
I might find there; then ascending a little way further, and throwing a lazy
I must help him to it.  Will I, nill I, the ineffable thing has tied me to
I take it very ill of him that he should so utterly ignore that case-bottle,
I've willed, I'll do!  They think me mad --Starbuck does; but I'm demoniac, I
I. ( Grampus). --Though this fish, whose loud sonorous breathing, or rather
In shape, he differs in some degree from the Huzza Porpoise, being of a less
In this one matter, Ahab seemed no exception to most American whale captains,
In those days, the captain's authority was restricted to the navigation and
Island days, Queequeg, for one, must certainly have been guilty of some
It is not probable that this monomania in him took its instant rise at the
It was the middle-watch; a fair moonlight; the seamen were standing in a
Jinglers, you say? --there goes another, dropped off; I pound it so.  China
Knife thee heartily!  big frame, small spirit!  All A row!  a row!  a row!
Lascar Sailor By Brahma!  boys, it'll be douse sail soon.  The sky-born,
Let it go.  Look!  see yonder Turkish cheeks of spotted tawn -- living,
Macy, the sole historian of Nantucket, stands accountable.  The worthy Obed
Maltese Sailor ( Reclining and shaking his cap.) It's the waves --the
Martin Frobisher on his return from that voyage, when Queen Bess did
Missouri.  And as when Spring and Summer had departed, that wild Logan of the
Moby Dick; those things had gone far to shake the fortitude of many brave
Most famous in our Western annals and Indian traditions is that of the White
Mountains and the Alleghanies.  At their flaming head he westward trooped it
Nantucket market.  Nantucket market!  Hoot!  But come closer, Starbuck; thou
Nantucket wool after the great annual sheep-shearing; aye, Tashtego, and he
Nantucketer.  Thus ends BOOK I. ( Folio), and now begins BOOK II. ( octavo).
Nay; what thing, for example, is there in the Greenland whale's anatomy more
Next: how shall we define the whale, by his obvious externals, so as
Nor, will the tragic dramatist who would depict mortal indomitableness in its
Now, then, come the grand divisions of the entire whale host.  First:
OCTAVO, the Grampus; of the DUODECIMO, the Porpoise.  FOLIOS.  Among these I
On this hint, attempts have been made to construct elaborate migratory charts
Ophites of the east reverenced in their statue devil; -- Ahab did not fall down
Ordinaire of the French whalemen; the Growlands Walfish of the Swedes.  It is
Over his ivory-inlaid table, Ahab presided like a mute, maned sea-lion on the
Over unsounded gorges, through the rifled hearts of mountains, under
Perchance ye need it not.  Down lances!  And now, ye mates, I do appoint ye
Pizarro, this whiteness keeps her ruins for ever new; admits not the
Polar bear frightens us with so unnatural a contrast.  But even assuming all
Porpoise.  To those who have not chanced specially to study the subject, it
Povelson, the superstitious belief in them is, in some vicissitudes of their
Protestant of the Middle American States, why does the passing mention of a
Provoke him, and he will buckle to a shark.  I have lowered for him many
Queequeg, the harpoons lie all twisted and wrenched in him; aye, Daggoo, his
Receiving the brimming pewter, and turning to the harpooneers, he ordered
Receiving the top-maul from Starbuck, he advanced towards the main-mast with
Sailor ( Dancing.) Go it, Pip!  Bang it, bell-boy!  Rig it, dig it, stig
Sailor ( Reclining on a mat.) Hail, holy nakedness of our dancing girls!
Sailor Aye; girls and a green! --then I'll hop with ye; yea, turn
Sailor Crack, crack, old ship!  so long as thou crackest, thou holdest!  Well
Sailor Rattle thy teeth, then, and pound away; make a pagoda of thyself.
Sailor Spell oh! --whew!  this is worse than pulling after whales in a calm
Sailors put it on their hones.  Porpoise meat is good eating, you know.  It
Sharks included.  BOOK II. ( Octavo), CHAPTER V. ( Thrasher). --This gentleman
Southern whale-fishers are not so snugly housed aloft as Captain Sleet and his
Southern whaling.  Nor is the pre-eminent tremendousness of the great Sperm
Spanish Sailor No; Daggoo showing his teeth.  Daggoo ( springing) Swallow
Sperm Whale when beneath the surface remain, in great part, unaccountable to
Sperm Whale, all fish (sharks included) are struck with the most lively
Starbuck to Stubb; from Stubb to Flask.  It seemed as though, by some
Starbuck, lowly.  But in his joy at the enchanted, tacit acquiescence of the
State-secret come.  Now, in his heart, Ahab had some glimpse of this, namely:
Steady, helmsman!  steady.  This is the sort of weather when brave hearts snap
Steed of the Prairies; a magnificent milk-white charger, large-eyed,
Strength, Cash, and Patience!
Stubb and Flask looked sideways from him; the honest eye of Starbuck fell
Stubb?  Here's a carcase.  I know not all that may be coming, but be it what
Stylites, the famous Christian hermit of old times, who built him a lofty
Sulphur Bottom!  I can say nothing more that is true of ye, nor can the oldest
Tartarian tiles in some of his profounder divings.  He is seldom seen; at
Tashtego ( with a whiff) A row a'low, and a row aloft --Gods and men --both
Tashtego had an ungentlemanly way of accelerating him by darting a fork at his
Tashtego, opposing his filed teeth to the Indian's: crosswise to them,
That inscrutable thing is chiefly what I hate; and be the white whale agent,
That it was only then, on the homeward voyage, after the encounter, that the
The irons!  take them; hold them while I fill!  Forthwith, slowly going from
The three mates quailed before his strong, sustained, and mystic aspect.
There you stand, a hundred feet above the silent decks, striding along the
There's naught so sweet on earth --heaven may not match it! --as those swift
Though the long period of a Southern whaling voyage (by far the longest of
Throw yourselves!  Legs!  Legs!  Iceland Sailor I don't like your floor,
Trafalgar Square; and ever when most obscured by that London smoke, token is
Turk, no hired Venetian or Malay, could have smote him with more seeming
Vendome, stands with arms folded, some one hundred and fifty feet in the air;
Vitus' imp --away, thou ague!  Advance, ye mates!  Cross your lances full
Voyage among the Icebergs, in quest of the Greenland Whale, and incidentally
WHALE.  As the type of the FOLIO I present the Sperm Whale; of the
We are the lads to hunt him up his whale!  All Aye!  aye!  Old Manx Sailor
Whale anywhere more feelingly comprehended, than on board of those prows which
Whale, by chance caught sight of him; in the beginning of the thing they had
Whale; the Cape Whale; the Leading Whale; the Cannon Whale; the Scragg Whale;
Whereas, among spouting fish the tail, though it may be similarly shaped,
White Friar or a White Nun, evoke such an eyeless statue in the soul?  Or what
White Whale was to them, or how to their unconscious understandings, also, in
Who'd go climbing after chestnuts now?  But there they go, all cursing, and
Why this book of whales is not denominated the Quarto is very plain.  Because,
With reference to the Polar bear, it may possibly be urged by him who would
[ A burst of revelry from the forecastle.] Oh, God!  to sail with such a
a certain royal pre-eminence in this hue; even the barbaric, grand old kings
a chance, watch him; and you will then see the great Sperm whale himself in
a fin; no wondrous feat for Starbuck.  What is it more?  From this one poor
a high raised voice exclaiming: Whosoever of ye raises me a white-headed
a joyful day; and though in other mortal sympathies and symbolizings, this
a long distance, to those who knew him.  The rest of his body was so streaked,
a permanent thing, residing in the open air.  Nor did they lose much hereby;
a poor old whale-hunter like him; and, therefore, all outward majestical
a rapid Dinner, Mr. Flask, follows after his predecessors.  But the third
a row!  Plunge in with ye!  English Sailor Fair play!  Snatch the Spaniard's
a silent, superstitious dread; the shrouded phantom of the whitened waters is
a single news-telling sail of any sort; the inordinate length of each
a very different thing.  Now, it was plainly a labor of love for Captain Sleet
a whale, men?  Sing out for him!  was the impulsive rejoinder from a score
abhorred white whale, he pitted himself, all mutilated, against it.  All that
aboundingly responded to the old man's ire --by what evil magic their souls
abridged.  At present he ranks simply as senior Harpooneer; and as such, is
accessory and strange glory which invests it in the White Steed and Albatross.
accidentally obtained from the stranded fish; in those days spermaceti, it
accomplishment of that monomaniac thought of his soul.  Now, to any one not
according to specific accounts, he had over and over again evinced in his
accountants have computed their great counting-house the globe, by girdling
accumulated associations, with whatever is sweet, and honorable, and sublime,
act, the undoubted deed --there, some unknown but still reasoning thing puts
actually inherent in substances, but only laid on from without; so that all
additional courses over spaces that before were blank.  At intervals, he would
addressed to the fancy, why, in reading the old fairy tales of Central
adieu to you, Spanish ladies!  Farewell and adieu to you, ladies of Spain!  Our
adjoining, and fearfully peep out at them through the blinds of its door,
adoring cherubim!
advancing keel.  It was in the midst of this repose, that Archy, one of the
afraid than the isle fort at Cattegat, put there to fight the Baltic with
aft!  Methinks it pictures life.  Foremost through the sparkling sea shoots on
aft, repeated Ahab.  Mast-heads, there!  come down!  When the entire ship's
after a three, four, or five years' voyage she is drawing nigh home with
after breakfast, Ahab, as was his wont, ascended the cabin-gangway to the
after ourselves any other apparatus we may beget.  In shape, the Sleet's
after part of the ship.  That is to say, they take their meals in the
against holy usage for Stubb to precede Flask to the deck.  Therefore it was
against the rocks with such violence as to cause instantaneous death.  And
agencies, fail to enlist among her forces this crowning attribute of the
ago this same plan was adopted by the Bay whalemen of New Zealand, who, upon
agree in all their grand features; nor has there yet been presented a single
ahab and anguish lay stretched together in one hammock, rounding in mid
albatross.  So that by no possibility could Coleridge's wild Rhyme have had
alive; it cannot be much matter of surprise that some whalemen should go
all my means are sane, my motive and my object mad.  Yet without power to
all predestinated.  I heard not all his talk with Starbuck; but to my poor
all that,
all the more fell for that in his frantic morbidness he at last came to
all the waves were women, then I'd go drown, and chassee with them evermore!
all the wonder.  Captain Ahab, I have heard of Moby Dick--but it was not Moby
all voyages now or ever made by man), the peculiar perils of it, and the
allusions to some kind of whales, yet it is in vain to attempt a clear
almost all whales.  So, call him the Hyena Whale, if you please.  His voracity
altogether, and, then, independent, hilarious little Flask enters King Ahab's
altogether, the remembrance of her cathedral-toppling earthquakes; nor the
always at too great a distance to study his countenance.  He is never chased;
always conveys an idea of hugeness.  But the creatures set down above as
am madness maddened!  That wild madness that's only calm to comprehend
among the frantic crew; when, waving his free hand to them, they all
among the men; till Stubb cautiously whispered to Flask, that Ahab must have
among the strange things bred by the intense artificialness of sea-usages,
amphibious.  but the last term of the definition is still more cogent, as
anatomy --there, at least, we shall be able to hit the right classification.
and English in the Arctic seas; it is the whale which the American fishermen
and Flask is the first man up.  Consider!  For hereby Flask's dinner was badly
and all its concerns, the Specksynder or Chief Harpooneer reigned supreme.  In
and blubber.  Childe Harold not unfrequently perches himself upon the
and contributes to the daily state of kings and queens drawn by milk-white
and currents; and thereby calculating the driftings of the sperm whale's
and dented brow; there also, you would see still stranger foot-prints --the
and fiercely glad and approving, grew the countenance of the old man at every
and finding it sheeted with ice, thrusts his horn up, and so breaks through.
and gashed soul bled into one another; and so interfusing, made him mad.
and her suburban avenues of house-walls lying over upon each other, as a
and horizontal tailed fish must be included in this ground-plan of Cetology.
and large.  I. The FOLIO WHALE; II.  the OCTAVO WHALE;  III.  the DUODECIMO
and marshals in the van of countless cohorts that endlessly streamed it over
and merchantmen alike, the mates have their quarters with the captain; and
and more ago, the command of a whale ship was
and nameless invisible domineerings of the captain's table, was the entire
and places in which, on various former voyages of various ships, sperm whales
and portents concerning him, not a few of the fishermen recalled, in reference
and recklessness in Stubb, and the pervading mediocrity in Flask.  Such a
and round the horn, and round the norway maelstrom, and round perdition's
and say to himself, how d'ye do?  Partners!  I must have partners!  Sicilian
and shadings which there met his eye; and with slow but steady pencil trace
and so at last mount to my ultimate destination.  Let me make a clean breast
and space; like Cranmer's sprinkled Pantheistic ashes, forming at last a
and spotted, and marbled with the same shrouded hue, that, in the end, he had
and superb a person.  But, doubtless, this noble savage fed strong and drank
and swallowed it, not without circumspection.  For, like the Coronation
and the Holy One that sitteth there white like wool; yet for all these
and to cries and maledictions against the white whale, the spirits
and vaguely, without the specific details of any certain calamity, and
and worship it like them; but deliriously transferring its idea to the
animation into which his unexpected question had so magnetically thrown them.
animosity; and when he received the stroke that tore him, he probably but
announces dinner to his lord and master; who, sitting in the lee
any mere sailor of the Pequod had a grudge against Flask in Flask's official
any other whale of that species.  But at length, such calamities did ensue in
any respect the mast-head standers of the land with those of the sea; but
any strange sight.  There is Napoleon; who, upon the top of the column of
any time, permitted there.  So that, in real truth, the mates and harpooneers
anything empty in her --say, an empty vial even --then, her mast-heads are kept
appalled me.  But how can I hope to explain myself here; and yet, in some
appalling of all brutes.  Or, if for any reason thought to be corporeally
appeals with such power to the soul; and more strange and far more portentous
appears.  So that in many cases such a panic did he finally strike, that few
appetites had Queequeg and Tashtego, that to fill out the vacancies made by
approaching to certainties, concerning the timeliest day to be upon this or
archangel wings, as if to embrace some holy ark.  Wondrous flutterings and
are curved upwards, he carries an everlasting Mephistophelean grin on his
are just crossing swords, pell-mell they'll go lunging presently.  Danish
are more than one sort of porpoises, and something must be done to distinguish
are so hopelessly lost to all honorable ambition, as that in their secret
are still entirely incompetent to the business of singing out upon discovering
are these monitions at all unneeded.  For nowadays, the whale-fishery
argument, I take the good old fashioned ground that the whale is a fish, and
arises from the circumstance, that the irresponsible ferociousness of the
around him, and oars and men both whirling in the eddies; one captain,
around him.  And of all these things the Albino whale was the symbol.  Wonder
around suddenly, and, bearing down upon them, either stave their boats to
article commonly known as whalebone or baleen; and the oil specially known as
as cosy as he would standing on a bull's horns.  To be sure, in cold weather
as if indeed that pallor were as much like the badge of consternation in the
as if to heighten its lustre, and without using any words was meanwhile lowly
as it is a mere envelope, or additional skin encasing you.  You cannot put a
as much their insufferable foe as his; how all this came to be --what the
as of late the Sperm Whale fishery had been marked by various and not
as seldom or never for a whole twelvemonth or more on a stretch, to encounter
ascend into it through a little trap-hatch in the bottom.  On the after side,
ashore, and keeled hulls split at sea.  Our captain has his birth-mark; look
aspects, does Nature in her least palpable but not the less malicious
assaults.  More than all, his treacherous retreats struck more of dismay than
assert, then, that in the wondrous bodily whiteness of the bird chiefly
astronomical purposes: a theory singularly supported by the peculiar
at all tend to tranquillize poor Dough-Boy.  How could he forget that in his
at all; and your identity comes back in horror.  Over Descartian vortices you
at home doing now?  Crying its eyes out? --Giving a party to the last arrived
at sea.  The three mast-heads are kept manned from sun-rise to sun-set; the
at such a thought-engendering altitude, --how could I but lightly hold my
attacked; therefore it was, that those who by accident ignorantly gave
aught to do with those mystical impressions which were mine, when I saw
away; the winds blew on; the sails filled out; the ship heaved and rolled as
awful silence; and yet at table old Ahab forbade not conversation; only he
awfulness to another mind almost solely consists in this one phenomenon,
awhile, and then slightly shaking the main brace, to see whether it be all
aye, sir, just through with this job --coming.
back, harpoonwise.  And once Daggoo, seized with a sudden humor, assisted
backwoodsman of the West, who with comparative indifference views an
bailiff in the market-place!  Nor, in some things, does the common, hereditary
ballroom of it.  Dance on, lads, you're young; I was once. 3d Nantucket
bankrupt baker and a hospital nurse.  And what with the standing spectacle of
banquet at Frankfort, where the German Emperor profoundly dines with the seven
baron of salt-junk, seemingly quarried out of the solid ox.  And if he were
basis.  On this rock every one of the whale-naturalists has split.  But it
battle to Moby Dick; such hunters, perhaps, for the most part, were content
be finished by their first architects; grand ones, true ones, ever leave the
be to lose oneself in such inhuman solitudes.  Much the same is it with the
be visible, this isolated fin will, at times, be seen plainly projecting from
beaked whales; pike-headed whales; bunched whales; under-jawed whales and
bear of the poles, and the white shark of the tropics; what but their smooth,
bear themselves boldly and defyingly enough towards their commander; yet,
bearing for his mark that style upon his back.  From having the baleen in his
bearing the one figure of a snow-white charger; and the great Austrian
beautiful thing that eludes him; every dimly-discovered, uprising fin of some
beauty, as if imparting some special virtue of its own, as in marbles,
because, in all my researches, I find none prior to them.  For though their
been divulged, even to the most erudite research; so the hidden ways of the
been seen on deck; and I suspect our old Mogul knows something of it too.  I
before me in all his Nantucket grimness and shagginess; and in this episode
before me.  Well
before the angels, I bowed myself; the white thing was so white, its wings
before us a leper; and like wilful travellers in Lapland, who refuse to wear
before.  Ah, ye admonitions and warnings!  why stay ye not when ye come?  But
behind him, so that he cannot even see it, but only smells its wild animal
behind; so in that broad madness, not one jot of his great natural intellect
beholding these vivacious fish, then heaven help ye; the spirit of godly
being the original inventors and patentees), so likewise should we denominate
being, these still drive us on.  The measure!  the measure!  cried Ahab.
belongs to them; and that it is by courtesy alone that anybody else is, at
between him and an officer called the Specksynder.  Literally this word means
billows to windward.  They are the lads that always live before the wind.  They
bilocular heart, their lungs, their movable eyelids, their hollow ears, penem
black.  Daggoo What of that?  Who's afraid of black's afraid of me!  I'm
blindest instinct!  Madness!  To be enraged with a dumb thing, Captain Ahab,
blood, such a sight would be but a ghastly deception; for again in
bloody hunt of whales.  Gnawed within and scorched without, with the infixed,
blowing, has furnished a proverb to landsmen, is so well known a denizen of
blubber-hunters sweep over thee in vain.  Very often do the captains of such
bluff-bowed and fearless as this mighty steed.  Whether marching amid his aides
brawlers!  Humph!  Belfast Sailor A row!  arrah a row!  The Virgin be blessed,
break the fixed trance of whiteness.  Not so the sailor, beholding the
breathing pictures painted by the sun.  The Pagan leopards --the unrecking and
brides, the benignity of age; though among the Red Men of America the giving
brought out; almost every night some pencil marks were effaced, and others
brow the piled entablatures of ages.  Wind ye down there, ye prouder, sadder
brute; for, analysed, that heightened hideousness, it might be said, only
bucket, will ye, Archy?  what noise d'ye mean?  There it is again --under the
burn unsavory tallow instead of odorous wax.  Though their blubber is very
burnish a little brighter the noble merit of the poem and the poet.  I
but a buckler.  in good time, though, to his great delight, the three
but a lengthened tusk, growing out from the jaw in a line a little depressed
but immortal (for immortality is but ubiquity in time); that though groves
but noiseless squall of a hornpipe right over the Grand Turk's head; and
but of all sailors, they are by all odds the most directly brought into
but once take the full-forced shock, then mine own electric thing, that had
but one of the captain's more inferior subalterns.  Nevertheless, as upon the
but the deadliest ill.
but there again the similitude ceases.  And it is just the same with the other
but valiantly facing everything out to the last, literally died at his post.
butterfly cheeks of young girls; all these are but subtile deceits, not
by no means unobservant of the paramount forms and usages of the sea.  Nor,
cabin after the squall that took place on the night succeeding that wild
call him Requin.  I remember the first albatross I ever saw.  It was during a
call upon holy Jonah to back me.  This fundamental thing settled, the next
can go.  The subterranean miner that works in us all, how can one tell
can't be, or else in his one case our old Mogul's fire-waters are somewhat
cannibals --morally enfeebled also, by the incompetence of mere unaided virtue
cannon upon its own mad mark; so that far from having lost his strength,
capacity, all that sailor had to do, in order to obtain ample vengeance, was
captain's cabin, and sleep in a place indirectly communicating with it.
captain's commanded. -- 1st Nantucket Sailor Oh, boys, don't be sentimental;
captive king; so like a Caryatid, he patient sits, upholding on his frozen
captured far north in the Pacific, in whose bodies have been found the barbs
care-free license and ease, the almost frantic democracy of those inferior
careless, now, who rules the decks below; whether Louis Philippe, Louis
cassock; and though among the holy pomps of the Romish faith, white is
certain it is, that with the mad secret of his unabated rage bolted up and
chalices!  Bestow them, ye who are now made parties to this indissoluble
chance clue to conduct us to the hidden cause we seek?  Let us try.  But in a
chapter about whiteness is but a white flag hung out from a craven soul; thou
character of the day, does the bare mention of Whitsuntide marshal in the
charmingly circumstantial account of the then recently invented crow's-nest
chart, with one tithe of such marvellous precision.  Though, in these cases,
chase that white whale on both sides of land, and over all sides of earth,
cheer and howl on his underlings to the attack.  But be all this as it may,
cheerful greenness of complete decay; spreads over her broken ramparts the
chewed boats, and the sinking limbs of torn comrades, they swam out of the
children before Ahab; and yet, in Ahab, there seemed not to lurk the smallest
circumpolar seas.  BOOK II. ( Octavo), CHAPTER IV. ( Killer). --Of this whale
classification of the Leviathan, founded upon either his baleen, or hump, or
climes, whiteness typifies the majesty of Justice in the ermine of the Judge,
cloth was cleared, or rather was restored to some hurried order by the pallid
clothed him with divineness; and that this divineness had that in it which,
clouds of spiritual wonderment and pale dread, in which that white phantom
collated, then the migrations of the sperm whale would be found to correspond
collected front, however pale, and issued his calm orders once again; and
collision forced to turn towards home, and for long months of days and weeks,
color, and at the same time the concrete of all colors; is it for these
color, approaching to olive.  His great lips present a cable-like aspect,
colored and coloring glasses upon their eyes, so the wretched infidel gazes
column marks that point of human grandeur beyond which few mortals will go.
combinations; or, in the case of any one of them detached, such an irregular
come what will, one comfort's always left -- that unfailing comfort is, it's
coming up, Ahab, after rapidly glancing over the bulwarks, and then darting
commander's vengeance.  How many barrels will thy vengeance yield thee even
commonly the whale whose distant jet is so often descried by passengers
community of interest prevailing among a company, all of whom, high or low,
company were assembled, and with curious and not wholly unapprehensive faces,
complete inattention to the tidings, you would think that moody Ahab had not
completely escaped them; to some minds it was not an unfair presumption, I
complexion; or whether he deemed that, on so long a voyage in such marketless
comprehensible form.  It was the whiteness of the whale that above all things
conceivable that this glorious thing is utterly unknown to men ashore! 
consider that the mystical cosmetic which produces every one of her hues, the
considerable
considerable a portion of the whole term of your natural life, should be so
conspicuous object.  this fin is some three or four feet long, growing
conspicuously to label him for all time to come?  To be short, then, a whale
consternation to every other creature in the sea, but also to be so incredibly
contact with whatever is appallingly astonishing in the sea; face to face
contemptible set, mostly lurking in the mouths of rivers, and feeding on wet
continual sight of the snow-howdahed Andes conveys naught of dread, except,
contradictory speculations regarding them, especially concerning the mystic
conveniences.  When Captain Sleet in person stood his mast-head in this crow's
convenient closet of your watch-coat.  Concerning all this, it is much to be
cope-stones, and crosses all adroop (like canted yards of anchored fleets);
cordon, extending from one of the fresh-water butts in the waist, to the
cordon, whose post was near the after-hatches, whispered to his neighbor, a
coupled with the first.  Almost any one must have noticed that all the fish
courageous enough in offering battle to the Greenland or Right whale, would
course of time, the true nature of spermaceti became
creature hitherto identified with the whale by the best informed Nantucketers;
creature stands invested in the fleece of celestial innocence and love; and
creatures in his green northern home, so that the strange muskiness he smells
crew, so officered, seemed specially picked and packed by some infernal
crooked jaw, and for the jaws of Death too, Captain Ahab, if it fairly comes
crossing the Atlantic, in the New York
crossing the snowy Alps in winter); so a watch-coat is not so much of a house
crow's-nest is something like a large tierce or pipe; it is open above,
crow's-nest; but though he so enlarges upon many of these, and though he
czarship which there is no withstanding.  Now, if to this consideration you
damned!  Pass along that return bucket.  There again --there it is! --it sounds
damned, most subtly and most malignantly!  damned in the midst of Paradise!
dance over your grave, I will --that's the bitterest threat of your
day has the original prestige of the Sperm Whale, as fearfully distinguished
death in this shark, and the mild deadliness of his habits, the French
deathful whaleboat's bow -- Death to Moby Dick!  God hunt us all, if we do not
deck.  There most sea-captains usually walk at that hour, as country
decline a contest with the Sperm Whale; at any rate, there are plenty of
deep of the abounding element of air; and through his dilated nostrils
deep sable, yet a boundary line, distinct as the mark in a ship's hull, called
deep, as if the masts were gigantic stilts, while beneath you and between
deepeningly contracted; like the unabated Hudson, when that noble Northman
degree remained unmanifested; through those forms that same sultanism became
deified Nature absolutely paints like the harlot, whose allurements cover
delirium at sea was likewise popularly ascribed to a kindred cause.  And so
demanded, he would escape from their clutches into his little pantry
den into the blessed light and air; even then, when he bore that firm,
departments of natural history become so repellingly intricate.  The right
depend for their profits, not upon fixed wages, but upon their common luck,
depends, and since in the American Fishery he is not only an important
deplored that the mast-heads of a southern whale ship are unprovided with
descrying the game, gave notice to the ready-manned boats nigh the beach.  But
determinate fact upon which to ground a radical distinction.  It is by endless
determinate.  Nevertheless, so well did he succeed in that dissembling, that
deviations, azimuth compass observations, and approximate errors, he
did flask presume to help himself to butter.  Whether he thought the owners of
did in the end incorporate with themselves all manner of morbid hints, and
did not last long.  Vehemently pausing, he cried: -- What do ye do when ye see
difference?  A problem?  Perhaps not.  To have been Belshazzar, King of
dignity of an officer, from that moment he had never known what it was to be
dim, random way, explain myself I must, else all these chapters might be
dinner in that same commander's cabin, and straightway their inoffensive, not
dinner-table of invited guests, that man's unchallenged power and dominion of
directly from the Latin word for white, all Christian priests derive the name
disorderly way they were sprinkled over the entire watery circumference,
dispersed; and Ahab retired within his cabin.
dissembling was only subject to his perceptibility, not to his will
distant oregon?  no: but here thou beholdest even in a dumb brute, the
distilled to a volatile salts for fainting ladies, the same way that the
distinctions a fiftieth part as available to the systematizer as those
distinguishing feature, the fin, from which he derives his name, is often a
divorced from more kindly associations, and coupled with any object terrible
does not feel the
done!  Let me touch the axis.  So saying, with extended arm, he grasped the
done!  The mate there holds ye to it stiffly.  He's no more
down, and I am up again; but ye have run and hidden.  Come forth from behind
downcast and hooded with new-fallen snow?  Or, to the unread, unsophisticated
downright.  In vain!  cried Ahab; but, maybe, 'tis well.  For did ye three
dread in my soul.  A wild, mystical, sympathetical feeling was in me; Ahab's
ears, all their martial bones jingling in them at every step, like Moorish
eight, thou Pip!  thou blackling!  and let me call the watch.  I've the sort
either wholly or in great part stripped of all direct associations calculated
ejaculates: -- Roll on, thou deep and dark blue ocean, roll!  Ten thousand
else ye swerve yourselves!  man has ye there.  Swerve me?  The path to my
elucidated by the following examples.  First: The mariner, when drawing nigh
elucidating the sperm whale.  BOOK I. ( Folio), CHAPTER III. ( Fin-Back).
emir, now seeing himself all alone on the quarter-deck, seems to feel
employs it for a rake in turning over the bottom of the sea for food.  Charley
encircles an imperial brain;
enhance its value by a notion so strangely significant of its scarcity.  And
enjoy.  Gifted with the high perception, I lack the low, enjoying power;
enough in the earthly make and incontestable character of the monster to
entrenchments, always, in themselves, more or less paltry and base.  This it
errors resulting from what is called the local attraction of all binnacle
escaped from a felonious visit to a meal-bag.  A most mean and mealy aspect!
especially when exhibited under any form at all approaching to muteness or
essence sits in bearded state; an antique buried beneath antiquities, and
evangelist, rides on his pallid horse.  Therefore, in his other moods,
even made significant of gladness, for among the Romans a white stone marked
even the modern Christians ascribe one-half of the worlds; which the ancient
events hereafter to be detailed, he addressed them in unusual terms, whether
ever-brimming goblet's rim, the warm waves blush like wine.  The gold brow
every apparent symptom of alarm, he had several times been known to turn
every one of them, almost, as boldly and fearlessly lowered for him, as for
every two hours.  In the serene weather of the tropics it is exceedingly
everything resolves you into languor.  For the most part, in this tropic
evinced by the fact, that originally in the old Dutch Fishery, two centuries
example of the Unicornism to be found in almost every kingdom of animated
exceed ten, and even attain to fifteen feet.  Strictly speaking, this horn is
excellently.  It spiralizes in ye; forks out at the serpent-snapping eye.
except that rocking life imparted by a gently rolling ship; by her, borrowed
existence; only a few of them, comparatively, had knowingly seen him; while
experience of all mankind fail to bear witness to the supernaturalism of this
external ones already enumerated.  What then remains?  nothing but to take hold
eye Starbuck then looked something as I the other evening felt.  Be sure the
eye open, and sing out every time.  And let me in this place movingly admonish
eye, as that sometimes he is loathed by his own kith and kin!  It is that
eyes lighted up with the stubbornness of life; the subterranean laugh died
eyes, methought I peeped to secrets which took hold of God.  As Abraham
face.  This whale averages some sixteen or eighteen feet in length.  He is
faculties; but under precisely similar circumstances, let him be called from
fain go still deeper into this matter, that it is not the whiteness,
familiar to landsmen have not a flat, but a vertical, or up-and-down tail.
family these whalemen may, in some primitive instances, live together; for
fan-tails like a split jib in a squall.  Death and devils!  men, it is Moby
fancy such long, dreary, speechless processions of slow-pacing pilgrims,
fantastic towers of man's upper earth, his root of grandeur, his whole awful
fast, even there, as he sailed, raving in his hammock.  In a strait-jacket,
fatal encounter, Ahab had cherished a wild vindictiveness against the whale,
fatalities had attended his chase.  But though similar disasters, however
fatality to help him to his monomaniac revenge.  How it was that they so
featured in the unbodied air!
feet should be marshalled among WHALES --a word, which, in the popular sense,
feline thing.  When you think it fled, it may have but become transfigured
fellows the harpooneers.  While their masters, the mates, seemed afraid of the
felt the agonizing bodily laceration, but nothing more.  Yet, when by this
ferocious as continually to be athirst for human blood.  Nor even down to so
few turns along the planks, and, after a grave peep into the binnacle, says,
fiery emotion accumulated within the Leyden jar of his own magnetic life.
figure.  He has no fins on his back (most other porpoises have), he has a
fill the scuttle-butt.  Standing, for the most part, on the hallowed precincts
filled their bellies like Indian ships all day loading with spices.  Such
filliping to others.  We sing; they sleep --aye, lie down there, like
fin, or teeth; notwithstanding that those marked parts or features very
final monomania seized him, seems all but certain from the fact that, at
fine whales, Hand, boys, over hand!  So, be cheery, my lads!  may your hearts
fire worshippers, the white forked flame being held the holiest on the altar;
fire.  But neither great Washington, nor Napoleon, nor Nelson, will answer a
fisheries any lad with lean brow and hollow eye; given to unseasonable
fixed purpose is laid with iron rails, whereon my soul is grooved to run.
flaky whiteness makes them the transcendent horrors they are?  That ghastly
flames before I give him up.  And this is what ye have shipped for, men!  to
flashing cascade of his mane, the curving comet of his tail, invested him
flogging him; as some schoolmasters get along in the world by a similar
flows narrowly, but unfathomably through the Highland gorge.  But, as in his
folder in reading pamphlets.  The Narwhale I have heard called the Tusked
food; and, also, calling to mind the regular, ascertained seasons for hunting
foot-prints of his one unsleeping, ever-pacing thought.  But on the occasion in
for all these fish, for generally they are the best.  Where any name happens
for the White Whale; a sharp lance for Moby Dick!  God bless ye, he seemed
for the re-discovery of the Lost Icelandic Colonies of Old Greenland; in
for the world they would have profaned that moment with the slightest
for their lances and other weapons; and with which whetstones, at dinner,
formed by the intertwisting, slanting folds of large wrinkles.  His grand
forth the mouldings of its features from behind the unreasoning mask.  If man
found almost all over the globe.  The name is of my own bestowal; for there
found in almost all latitudes.  He has a peculiar way of showing his dorsal
four-and-twenty elders stand clothed in white before the great white throne,
fowl.  But how had the mystic thing been caught?  Whisper it not, and I will
frequented by the Sperm Whale fishermen.  But not all of them knew of his
frequently seen, but never with such emotions as when I beheld the Antarctic
from all other species of the leviathan, died out of the minds of the whalemen
from such a fiendish man!  They were bent on profitable cruises, the profit
from the Quarter-Deck Eight bells there, forward! 2nd Nantucket Sailor
from the battle if offered.  One of the wild suggestings referred to, as at
from the circumstance that he is chiefly found in the vicinity of that Folio.
from the hold; nor yet the presaging vibrations of
from the horizontal.  But it is only found on the sinister side, which has an
from the men before the mast, and be in some way distinguished as their
from the sea; by the sea, from the inscrutable tides of God.  But while this
frosts of mountains; the desolate shiftings of the windrowed snows of
frugal housekeepers, in the absence of company, and quite alone by themselves,
full of a soft, dewy, distant dreaminess?  Or why, irrespective of all
fullest sweep and direct swing, ever forget a hint, incidentally so important
fully acquainted with the ways of the leviathans, it might seem an absurdly
furnished him.  A most imperial and archangelical apparition of that unfallen,
furnishes an asylum for many romantic, melancholy, and absent-minded young
future investigators, who may complete what I have here but begun.  If any of
gallant cross-trees.  Here, tossed about by the sea, the beginner feels about
gallantly wave her jewelled hand to him from a window of Greenwich Palace, as
gamesomeness is not in ye.  A well-fed, plump Huzza Porpoise will yield you
gay and fleeting As bubbles that swim, on the beaker's brim, And break on the
general belief among archaeologists, that the first pyramids were founded for
general management of the vessel: while over the whale-hunting department
gentleman, with a brimstone belly, doubtless got by scraping along the
gentlemen and noblemen, my valiant harpooneers.  Disdain the task?  What, when
gentlemen, after the same meal, take a few turns in the garden.  Soon his
geological stones, with the peculiar mark of his walk.  Did you fixedly gaze,
ghostliness of repose in that creature, when beheld in his ordinary moods,
giants made or nourished.  But Queequeg, he had a mortal, barbaric smack of
glances of warm, wild bosoms in the dance, when the over-arboring arms hide
gloom!
glories of those primeval times when Adam walked majestic as a god,
goes down?  said the Gay-Header deliberately.  And has he a curious spout,
goes the jib-stay!  Blang-whang!  God!  Duck lower, Pip, here comes the royal
gone.  Steward, refill!  Attend now, my braves.  I have mustered ye all round
good conduct of the harpooneers the success of a whaling voyage largely
gracious thing he will by whiteness, no man can deny that in its profoundest
grand political maxim of the sea demands, that he should nominally live apart
grandeur not surpassed in any military navy; nay, extorting almost as much
grasshopper!  Long-Island Sailor Well, well, ye sulkies, there's plenty more
graved on it.  On that Ahaz-dial the shadow often goes back.  The Fin-Back is
great empty wooden trencher, while Tashtego, knife in hand, began laying out
great principle of light, for ever remains white or colorless in itself, and
great, unflattering laureate, Nature.
greatly admire and even love the brave, the honest, and learned Captain; yet
green navies and the green-skulled crews!  Well, well; belike the whole
green the first day i brought ye thence; now worn and wilted quite.  Ah me!
ground-tier butts.  At 'em again!  There, take this copper-pump, and hail
grounds upon which Linnaeus would fain have banished
had been captured or seen.  While thus employed, the heavy pewter lamp
had gone up with the rest; my oath had been welded with theirs; and
had perished.  That before living agent, now became the living instrument.  If
half-formed foetal suggestions of supernatural agencies, which eventually
half-slouched hat he continued to pace, unmindful of the wondering whispering
half-throttled shriek you drop through that transparent air into the summer
hammock, a hearse, a sentry box, a pulpit, a coach, or any other of those
hand me yon top-maul.  While the mate was getting the hammer, Ahab, without
handful of the Divine Inert, than through their undoubted superiority over
harbor the conceit, that for those very reasons he was all the better
hard!  Jimmini, what a squall!  But those chaps there are worse yet --they are
hardly help suspecting them for mere sounds, full of Leviathanism, but
harpooneers and seamen, running closer to the excited old man: A sharp eye
harpooneers, I dare say, gay as a frigate's pennant, and so am I--fa, la!
has been denominated the White Squall.  Nor, in some historic instances, has
has been made the symbol of the divine spotlessness and power; by the Persian
hatches --don't you hear it --a cough--it sounded like a cough.  Cough be
have kept my word.  But I now leave my cetological System standing thus
have long pursued in the Indian ocean, on the Brazil Banks, on the Nor' West
have mercy on this small black boy down here; preserve him from all men that
have no bowels to feel fear!
having been inflicted by an unintelligent agent.  Judge, then, to what pitches
he being the only creature from which that valuable substance, spermaceti, is
he broods within his sternward cabin, builded over the dead water of the
he ever exacted, was implicit, instantaneous obedience; though he required no
he had sanely brought to bear upon any one reasonable object.  This is much;
he has never yet shown any part of him but his back, which rises in a long
he shouted with a terrific, loud, animal sob, like that of a heart-stricken
he swung to the mad rockings of the gales.  And, when running into more
he would run away with rope-walks of line.  Prodigies are told of him.  Adieu,
head of a crew, too, chiefly made up of mongrel renegades, and castaways, and
head to the low carlines; at every motion of his colossal limbs, making the
head, and the whole of his mouth, which makes him look as if he had just
heard Stubb tell Flask, one morning watch, that there was something of that
heard his menial.  But presently, catching hold of the mizen shrouds, he
hearken with a childish fire-side interest and awe, to the wild, strange
hearthstone, or aught hospitable beneath that part of the sun; in such
heathen crew that have small touch of human mothers in them!  Whelped
heightens the effect of that passage in Froissart, when, masked in the snowy
hence, by bringing together two such opposite emotions in our minds, the
here I don't.  Fine prospects to 'em; they're on the road to heaven.  Hold on
here include the following chapters: -- I. The Sperm Whale; II.  the Right
here.  Perhaps they were; or perhaps there might have been shoals of them in
high and mighty cabin.  In strange contrast to the hardly tolerable constraint
high, pyramidical white hump.  These were his prominent features; the tokens
high-tide Ganges turned to wind!  Thou showest thy black brow, Seeva!
him in particular latitudes; could arrive at reasonable surmises, almost
him the Elephant and Castle whale.  At any rate, the popular name for him does
him we have a remarkable instance of a dauntless stander-of-mast-heads; who
him--him-- faltering hard for a word, and screwing his hand round and round as
him; tows me with a cable I have no knife to cut.  Horrible old man!  Who's
himself before it, you would have seen him intently study the various lines
himself blind at the monumental white shroud that wraps all the prospect
himself was dumb.  What a relief it was to choking Stubb, when a rat made a
himself,
himself, he will not get more than three mouthfuls that day; for it is
himself, the chances were Ahab had never so much as noticed it.  Least of all,
his bold ship sailed down the Thames; when Sir Martin returned from that
his cabin, Ahab thus pondered over his charts.  Almost every night they were
his crow's nest, within easy reach of his hand.  Though, upon the whole, I
his eyes among the crew, started from his standpoint; and as though not a
his friends, has tasted what it is to be Caesar.  It is a witchery of social
his hammock to view his ship sailing through a midnight sea of milky whiteness
his hidden self, raved on.  Human madness is oftentimes a cunning and most
his hot heart's shell upon it.
his hunger, as keep it immortal in him.  Peace and satisfaction, thought
his impious end; but feel that
his jaws is exceedingly valuable.  It is in request among jewellers and
his life on its summit, hoisting his food from the ground with a tackle; in
his lofty, overscorning carriage.  He was the elected Xerxes of vast herds of
his mates thanked God the direful madness was now gone; even then, Ahab, in
his old acquaintances on shore but half dreamed of what was lurking in him
his orders, mind ye that.  I heard old Ahab tell him he must always kill a
his own proper turn, each officer waited to be served.  They were as little
his pursuers; and from time to time have originated the most curious and
hitherto been designated, is that of the fishers -- Right-Whale Porpoise,
holding that if we call our own children after our own names (we fathers
hooked fin in swimming, which looks something like a Roman nose.  When not
hopeless task thus to seek out one solitary creature in the unhooped oceans of
horizon.  In that ring Cain struck Abel.  Sweet work, right work!  No?  Why
horns of the male deer are manufactured into hartshorn.  Originally it was in
horrible to him as a real ghost; in vain the lead assures him he is still off
horribles!  I feel funny.  Fa, la!  lirra, skirra!  What's my juicy little pear
hour like this, with soul beat down and held to knowledge, --as wild,
house; turning inwards for a moment, only to be turned out the next; and, as
hover.  And perhaps, at mid-day, in the fairest weather, with one
however it was, Flask, alas!  was a butterless man!  Another thing.  Flask was
however the general experiences in the fishery may amend such reports as
however, where it is furnished with a movable side-screen to keep to windward
hue.  It cannot well be doubted, that the one visible quality in the aspect of
human race itself, giving the white man ideal mastership over every dusky
humming to himself, producing a sound so strangely muffled and inarticulate
humpbacked whale, each has a hump; but there the similitude ceases.  Then,
hunt Moby Dick to his death!  The long, barbed steel goblets were lifted;
hunt, then, the best lance out of all Nantucket, surely he will not hang back,
hunters believe that, could he be closely observed and studied throughout the
hunters were willing to encounter the perils of his jaw.  But there were still
hunters, to whom the story of the White Whale had eventually come.  Nor did
hustings; and leaves the highest honors that this air can give, to those men
i, the wearer, see not its far flashings; but darkly feel that i wear that,
ideality, who happens to be but loosely acquainted with the peculiar
idealized significance it calls up a peculiar apparition to the soul.  But
identify with him, not only all his bodily woes, but all his intellectual and
if
if thou gettest it, Captain Ahab?  it will not fetch thee much in our
ill effect, giving its owner something analogous to the aspect of a clumsy
immensities of the universe, and thus stabs us from behind with the thought
immitigable, and supernatural revenge.  Here, then, was this grey-headed,
impossible correctly to classify the Greenland whale.  And if you descend
imprecations he shouted out: Aye, aye!  and I'll chase him round Good Hope,
in Blanket Bay.  What say ye?  There comes the other watch.  Stand by all
in all sorts of directions, and kicking off his shoes, he strikes into a sharp
in his art, as the one now alluded to.  But Ahab, my Captain, still moves
in his head.  Beware of such an one, I say; your whales must be seen before
in invariability to those of the herring-shoals or the flights of swallows.
in it.  For when they did enter it, it was something as a street-door enters a
in itself, to heighten that terror to the furthest bounds.  Witness the white
in our superstitions do we fail to throw the same snowy mantle round our
in quantity, and pretty good for light.  By some fishermen his approach is
in some peaceful valley of Vermont, far removed from all beasts of prey --why
in some sort revive a noble custom of my fisherman fathers before me.  O men,
in that bird's nest within three or four perches of the pole.  But if we
in that of terra firma, wild rumors abound, wherever there is any adequate
in the cabin was no companionship; socially, Ahab was inaccessible.  Though
in the case of Nicholas the Czar, the ringed crown of geographical empire
in the first degree.  Had he helped himself at that table, doubtless, never
in the rightly regal and intelligent spirit presides over his own private
in the way of the business we follow; but I came here to hunt whales, not my
in this matter of the whale?  See Stubb!  he laughs!  See yonder Chilian!  he
in which to keep your speaking trumpet, pipe, telescope, and other nautical
in which you will see the skipper parading his quarter-deck with an elated
incapacitated for that, yet such an one would seem superlatively competent to
incarnate in an irresistible dictatorship.  For be a man's intellectual
incarnation of all those malicious agencies which some deep men feel eating in
incorporated into this System, according to his Folio, Octavo, or Duodecimo
indiscriminately designated by all the following titles: The Whale; the
indistinctness.  For we are all killers, on land and on sea; Bonapartes and
individual influence for the time; that man's royalty of state transcends
individualizing tidings concerning Moby Dick.  It was hardly to be doubted,
inhabitant of the globe; the most formidable of all whales to encounter; the
inland Strello mountain in Portugal (near whose top there was said to be a
instances even to idiot imbecility they have imparted potency.  But when, as
instances, such seemed the White Whale's infernal aforethought of ferocity,
instinct of the knowledge of the demonism in the world.  Though
intangible malignity which has been from the beginning; to whose dominion
intended to rear the loftiest mast-head in all Asia, or Africa either; yet
intervals during the passage, he was a raving lunatic; and, though unlimbed
into harbor.  He has a great pack on him like a peddler; or you might call
into some still subtler form.  Ahab's full lunacy subsided not, but
into the bowels of the various leviathans, why there you will not find
into unnecessary excitements; you hear of no domestic afflictions; bankrupt
intrantem feminam mammis lactantem, and finally, ex lege naturae jure
invariably assumes a horizontal position.  By the above definition of what a
inventor and patentee, and free from all ridiculous false delicacy, and
invested Moby Dick with new terrors unborrowed from anything that visibly
inward mould of every outer movement.  D'ye mark him, Flask?  whispered Stubb;
iron part of their harpoons, some three feet long, held, barbs up, before him.
iron, and bronze men; who, though well capable of facing out a stiff gale,
irresistible arm drag?  What skiff in tow of a seventy-four can stand still?
is a spouting fish with a horizontal tail.  There you have him.
is but a peg higher than Flask, happens to have but a small appetite, and
is even that fair play.  Who's over me?  Truth hath no confines.  Take off
is it that upon the sunniest day, if you but shake a fresh buffalo robe
is little of it, and he is seldom hunted.  He is mostly found in the
is never hunted.  I never heard what sort of oil he has.  Exception
is the present Cachalot of the French, and the Pottsfich of the Germans, and
is there apart from the traditions of dungeoned warriors and kings (which
is under him again.  Yet where is the mariner who will tell thee, Sir, it was
is very discreet and scientific here, yet, for all his learned binnacle
is well known, and from the circumstance that the inner angles of his lips
is wrapped by influences all tending to make his fancy pregnant with many a
is, that for ever keeps God's true princes of the Empire from the world's
is, that however this one-sided horn may really be used by the Narwhale
isolation; as utterly to defy all general methodization formed upon such a
it has been believed by some whalemen, that the nor' west passage, so long a
it is absurd.  Some centuries ago, when the Sperm whale was almost wholly
it must needs be plucked at from the skies, and dived for in the deep, and
it so very unlikely, that far from distrusting his fitness for another whaling
it the Sleet's crow's-nest, in honor of himself; he being the original
it was not this night in particular that, in the solitude of
it will, I'll go to it laughing.  Such a waggish leering as lurks in all your
it with guineas, one to every three parts of an inch; then, let me tell thee,
it ye pull to, men?  A dead whale or a stove boat!  More and more strangely
it!  Hark ye, lad --fleet interlacings of the limbs --lithe swayings --coyings
it's bad for the digestion!  Take a tonic, follow me! ( Sings, and all
it, quig it, bell-boy; Make fire-flies; break the jinglers!  Pip
it, would be inevitably to be torn into a quick eternity.  on this head, there
it?  To analyse it, would seem impossible.  Can we, then, by the citation of
its intensity completely overpowered all the rest; and yet so mystical and
its residuary legatees.  They made a sort of temporary servants' hall of the
itself accounted an object of great curiosity.  Black Letter tells me that Sir
itself!  The prophecy was that I should be dismembered; and--Aye!  I lost this
jammed in point of time.  Starbuck and Stubb both had the start of him; and
japonicas, and pearls; and though various nations have in some way recognised
jaw they had started as if each was separately touched by some specific
jingle all over like my tambourine --that anaconda of an old man swore 'em in
keyed in him, Ahab had purposely sailed upon the present voyage with the
kill, or change, or shun the fact; he likewise knew that to mankind he did
kinds, presents.  How then?  The baleen, hump, back-fin, and teeth; these are
king's ghost in supernatural distress.  Through its inexpressible, strange
knife in hand, he had but given loose to a sudden, passionate, corporal
knife!  A ring, a ring!  Old Manx Sailor Ready formed.  There!  the ringed
knowing that after repeated, intrepid assaults, the White Whale had escaped
known as the Trumpa whale, and the Physeter whale, and the Anvil Headed whale,
known but his name.  I have seen him at a distance off Cape Horn.  Of a
known to both American and English whale-ships, and as well a thing placed
known, its original name was still retained by the dealers; no doubt to
knows very well, Captain Sleet, that he was not so much immersed in those
lake in which the wrecks of ships floated up to the surface); and that still
landscape of snows --a colorless, all-color of atheism from which we shrink?
last coming to be linked with the White Whale in the minds of the
late a time as Cuvier's, were these or almost similar impressions effaced.
latent horror in thee!  but 'tis not me!  that horror's out of me!  and with
latitudes and longitudes, does the name of the White Sea exert such a
latitudes and longitudes, pursuing too such a calling as he does, the whaleman
league.  Ha!  Starbuck!  but the deed is done!  Yon ratifying sun now waits to
lean arms.  And when he would hear Tashtego singing out for him to produce
leap down the crags and drown the villages? --The blast!  the blast!  Up,
least I have never seen him except in the remoter southern seas, and then
least given to that sort of shallowest assumption; and though the only homage
left a deeper mark.  And, so full of his thought was Ahab, that at every
left behind him with the Cape Horn swells, and he came forth from his dark
left-handed man.  What precise purpose this ivory horn or lance answers, it
leg over the top-sail yard, take a preliminary view of the watery pastures,
leg.  I now prophesy that I will dismember my dismemberer.  Now, then, be the
legendary record of
legendary times thrown its shadow before it; we find some book naturalists
legerdemain in the powers of frost and air, he, shivering and half
legs!  Pip!  little Pip!  hurrah with your tambourine!  Pip ( Sulky and
leopard-like look, being of a milk-white ground color, dotted with round and
leviathans, being the one first regularly hunted by man.  It yields the
life they feel!  The crew, man, the crew!  Are they not one and all with Ahab,
light, but only as an ointment and medicament.  It was only to be had from the
light, it lights not me; all loveliness is anguish to me, since I can ne'er
like a tall misanthropic spear upon a barren plain; gifted with such
like that chosen star which every evening leads on the hosts of light.  The
like two or three sleepers turning over, now!  Caramba!  have done,
lines and courses on the wrinkled charts, some invisible pencil was also
lips while meeting.  a brave stave that --who calls?  mr.  starbuck?  Aye, aye,
lirra, skirra!  Oh-- We'll drink to-night with hearts as light, To love, as
literally justified by his vivid aspect, when seen gliding at high noon
little bruited ashore, were by no means unusual in the fishery; yet, in most
little is precisely known to the Nantucketer, and nothing at all to the
living experience of living men, the prodigies related in old times of the
locker in the transom, and bringing out a large wrinkled roll of yellowish
lofty spars along the sea-coast, to which the look-outs ascended by means of
long in working. 5th Nantucket Sailor What's that I saw--lightning?  Yes.
long lacquered mild afternoons on the waves, followed by the gaudiest and yet
look ye, Starbuck, what is said in heat, that thing unsays itself.  There are
lookouts of a Greenland whaler are protected from the inclement weather of
lords it over all below!  Oh!  I plainly see my miserable office, --to obey,
lovely tail, and sentimental Indian eyes of a hazel hue.  But his
low cabin framework to shake, as when an African elephant goes passenger in a
lubber of me for ever and a day!  Then tossing both arms, with measureless
lungs and warm blood; whereas, all other fish are lungless and cold blooded.
lurks the secret of the spell; a truth the more evinced in this, that by a
madman!  Insufferable sting, that sanity should ground arms on such a field!
magnets; an error ascribable to the horizontal vicinity of the iron in the
magniloquent ascriptions of dominion; and the modern kings of Siam unfurling
magnitude: --The Bottle-Nose Whale; the Junk Whale; the Pudding-Headed
malice.  Small reason was there to doubt, then, that ever since that almost
malignity, which whale, after doing great mischief to his assailants, had
man can follow another into these halls.  And though, doubtless, some at least
man to remove the shoes from his feet ere stepping upon the quarter-deck; and
man's knife, as he carved the chief dish before him.  I do not suppose that
man; he calls that fun: humph!  I save my sweat.  Old Manx Sailor I wonder
man; this leviathan seems the banished and unconquerable Cain of his race,
manned to the last; and not till her skysail-poles sail in among the spires
manner of uncouth names.  But I omit them as altogether obsolete; and can
many broken-down blacksmiths among her crew; I say, that though the Captain
many naturalists among the whales.  But as these pig-fish are a nosy,
many of them adventurously pushing their quest along solitary latitudes, so
marvelling how it was that they themselves became so excited at such
mast-head of some luckless disappointed whale-ship, and in moody phrase
mast-headers have before now heard me give orders about a white whale.  Look
masts, as for a moment their hearts sank in.  For again Starbuck's downcast
mat, but the soft soil has slid!  I saw thee woven in the wood, my mat!
match itself must needs be wasting!  What I've dared, I've willed; and what
mate, Ahab did not hear his foreboding invocation; nor yet the low laugh
mates formed what may be called the first table in the Pequod's cabin.  After
matter like this, subtlety appeals to subtlety, and without imagination no
matter, so the whale fishery surpasses every other sort of maritime life, in
maty; it's too springy to my taste.  I'm used to ice-floors.  I'm sorry to
may never have occurred to you that a porpoise spouts.  Indeed, his spout is
may possibly be conceived that, in the internal parts of the whale, in his
may possibly seem strange, that fishes not commonly exceeding four or five
me; Moby Dick that brought me to this dead stump I stand on now.  Aye, aye,
mealy-mouth spoils all.  Though his entire back down to his side fins is of a
measure of grog.  But what's this long face about, Mr. Starbuck; wilt thou not
meat as though receiving alms; and cut it tenderly; and a little started if,
meditativeness; and who offers to ship with the phaedon instead of Bowditch
meet the eye of their leader, ere he rushes on at their head in the trail of
men from whom warm words are small indignity.  I meant not to incense thee.
men, disgusted with the carking cares of earth, and seeking sentiment in tar
mention, that however such a nomenclature may be convenient in facilitating
merchantmen generally; yet, never mind how much like an old Mesopotamian
meritoque.  I submitted all this to my friends Simeon Macey and Charley
might be taken to the name bestowed upon this whale, on the ground of its
might readily have prophesied it --for when I clapped my eye upon his skull I
mighty birth.  No wonder, then, that ever gathering volume from the mere
miles, and more, to sail ere reaching her proper cruising ground.  and if,
miles, and passed a thousand shores, you would not come to any chiselled
minds of his more desperate hunters were impelled, when amid the chips of
miniature.  BOOK III. ( Duodecimo), CHAPTER II. ( Algerine Porpoise). -- A
mittened fingers and hooded head he was studying the mathematics aloft there
modern ship sing out for a sail, or a whale just bearing in sight.  In Saint
modes whereby, after sounding to a great depth, he transports himself with
months.  And it is much to be deplored that the place to which you devote so
monuments and splintered crosses.  But thou sayest, methinks this white-lead
mood, thy spirit ebbs away to whence it came; becomes diffused through time
moose; Aye, aye!  it was that accursed white whale that razeed me; made a
more be seen.  But even stripped of these supernatural surmisings, there was
more loathsome than terrific, to the dumb gloating of their aspect.  So that
more profitably employed, the sperm whale hunters sometimes capture the Hyena
more terrible than all the whooping imps of the Blocksburg?  Nor is it,
more wonderful story of the Arethusa fountain near Syracuse (whose waters
more would he have been able to hold his head up in this honest world;
more.  Now, as the business of standing mast-heads, ashore or afloat, is a
moreover intensified by his delirium, that his mates were forced to lace him
most American whalemen the mast-heads are manned almost simultaneously with
most brain-battering fight!  Dry heat upon my brow?  Oh!  time was, when as the
most maddens and torments; all that stirs up the lees of things; all truth
most majestic in aspect; and lastly, by far the most valuable in commerce;
most men, yet few perhaps were entirely conscious of them at the time, and
most usual point of perch is the head of the t' gallant-mast, where you stand
mostly, the disastrous encounter between Ahab and the whale had hitherto been
mount to the apex, and sing out for new stars; even as the look-outs of a
mounts the Folio whale's back, and as he swims, he works his passage by
mounts up!  she wearies with her endless hill.  Is, then, the crown too heavy
mouth, the Fin-Back is sometimes included with the right whale, among a
mouthfuls he could keep up the vitality diffused through so broad, baronial,
much more strongly on the imagination of an untravelled American, than those
murderous monster against whom I and all the others had taken our oaths of
murderous, convivial indiscretions.  Alas!  Dough-Boy!  hard fares the white
muskiness --why will he start, snort, and with bursting eyes paw the ground in
mutely reckoning the latitude on the smooth, medallion-shaped tablet,
nailed cleats, something as fowls go upstairs in a hen-house.  A few years
nameless, interior volition, he would fain have shocked into them the same
narrow-flowing monomania, not one jot of Ahab's broad madness had been left
naturalists; the Greenland Whale of the English Whalemen; the Baliene
naturally grow out of the very body of all surprising terrible events, --as the
nature.  From certain cloistered old authors I have gathered that this same
naught.  Though in many natural objects, whiteness refiningly enhances
nest of his, he tells us that he always had a rifle with him (also fixed in
never fail!  While the bold harpooneer is striking the whale!  Mate's Voice
never given on ship-board except in some extraordinary case.  Send everybody
never!  But some time after, I learned that goney was some seaman's name for
nevertheless, strange to say, Ahab never forbade him.  And had Flask helped
night-women, that beat head-winds round corners.  O Christ!  to think of the
no gazettes; extras with startling accounts of commonplaces never delude you
nominally included in the census of Christendom, he was still an alien to it.
nominally lived there; still, being anything but sedentary in their habits,
nostrils, he has inhaled it in his lungs.  Starbuck now is mine; cannot
not but occasionally awaken in any man's soul some alarm, there was another
not gregarious.  He seems a whale-hater, as some men are man-haters.  Very
not lively about it, if he did not go with a nimble hop-skip-and-jump, then
not so much the fear of striking hidden rocks, as the fear of that hideous
not the fierce-fanged tiger in his heraldic coat can so stagger courage as the
not wholly lodged in the person now called the captain, but was divided
not yet have we solved the incantation of this whiteness, and learned why it
nothing but the charnel-house within; and when we proceed further, and
now half-revolving in his pivot-hole, with one hand reaching high up a shroud,
now long dissemble; in some sort, did still.  But that thing of his
now, touching the Black Fish, so called, because blackness is the rule among
objects, man, are but as pasteboard masks.  But in each event --in the living
obligations to observe all whale-ships' standing orders, Keep your weather
oblong spots of black.  His oil is very superior, clear and fine; but there
observation, even upon so neutral a topic as the weather.  No!  And when
obtained.  All his peculiarities will, in many other places, be enlarged upon.
obviously seem better adapted to afford the basis for a regular system of
ocean at his feet for the visible image of that deep, blue, bottomless soul,
of Pegu placing the title Lord of the White Elephants above all their other
of a leg, yet such vital strength yet lurked in his Egyptian chest, and was
of annihilation, when beholding the white depths of the milky way?  Or is it,
of clubbed voices.
of condescension or in terrorem, or otherwise; yet even Captain Ahab was
of harpoons darted in the Greenland seas.  Nor is it to be gainsaid, that in
of inflamed, distracted fury the
of it here, and frankly admit that I kept but sorry guard.  With the problem
of its fleshly tabernacle, and cannot freely move about in it, nor even move
of mouth for that --the hogshead mouth.  So, so, ( thrusts his head down the
of officers, a class unknown of course in any other marine than the
of one part of their sacred vesture, the alb or tunic, worn beneath the
of plumage.  I cannot tell, can only hint, the things that darted through me
of spears should be planted in his flanks, he would still swim away unharmed;
of the Glacier, which was the name of Captain Sleet's good craft.  He called
of the Pequod might more properly be said to have lived out of the cabin than
of the imaginative impressions about to be presented may have been shared by
of the port, does she altogether relinquish the hope of capturing one whale
of the quarter-deck, they were careful not to speak or rustle their feet.
of the sacred White Dog was by far the holiest festival of their theology,
of the sperm whale.  Besides, when making a passage from one feeding-ground to
of the universe revolving in me, how could I--being left completely to myself
of the whales bodily, in their entire liberal volume, and boldly sort them
of the white belt of wampum was the deepest pledge of honor; though in many
of uncertain, fugitive, half-fabulous whales, which, as an American
of us.  Hoe corn when you may, I say.  All legs go to harvest soon.  Ah!  here
of your head in a hard gale.  Being fixed on the summit of the mast, you
off the stray narwhales, or vagrant sea unicorns infesting those waters; for
officer in the boat, but under certain circumstances (night watches on a
oftentimes hard to induce long practised Right whalemen to embark in the
old Mogul has fixed him, too.  I twigged it, knew it; had had the gift,
old grudge makes me touchy. ( Advancing.) Aye, harpooneer, thy race is the
on bended knees, did likewise present to her highness another horn, pertaining
on such or such a meridian, a Sperm Whale of uncommon magnitude and
once sailed between the boots of the famous Colossus at old Rhodes.  There you
one and the same instant of time.  Nor, credulous as such minds must have been,
one good gallon of good oil.  But the fine and delicate fluid extracted from
one officer to the other, he brimmed the harpoon sockets with the fiery waters
one only and all-engrossing object of hunting the White Whale.  Had any one of
only one that can possibly succeed, for it alone is practicable.  To proceed.
only people the soul by continually flitting through it.  In this enchanted
operating without medium upon matter, would touch all objects, even tulips and
oppose me now, without rebellion.  God keep me! --keep us all!  murmured
or be the white whale principal, I will wreak that hate upon him.  Talk not
or devouring amputations --but fatal to the last degree of fatality; those
or right-mindedness in Starbuck, the invulnerable jollity of indifference
or side next the stern of the ship, is a comfortable seat, with a locker
order ye; ye will it.  Cut your seizings and draw the poles, ye harpooneers!
order, nevertheless retain a proportionate likeness to them in figure, yet
other and more essential particulars.  Thus, the sperm whale and the
other and more vital practical influences at work.  Not even at the present
other earthly hues --every stately or lovely emblazoning --the sweet tinges of
other funereal music.  Now, in allusion to the white, silent stillness of
other leviathans might be hopefully pursued, yet to chase and point lance at
other storied structures, its neighbors --the Byward Tower, or even the
other world, as of mortal trepidation here.  And from that pallor of the dead,
otherwise than but naturally grieved, and that to the quick, with the
otherwise than hungry, more or less.  For what he ate did not so much relieve
ounce, my boys!  Huzza!  huzza!  cried the seamen, as with swinging
out of it, without running great risk of perishing (like an ignorant pilgrim
outlaws, even in the lawless seas.  thus ends book II. ( Octavo), and begins
outward homage as if he wore the imperial purple, and not the shabbiest of
over him, he cries; --aye, he would be a democrat to all above; look, how he
over inside of ye --nothing else.  Look to the bucket!
over the fancy, while that of the Yellow Sea lulls us with mortal thoughts of
paced; so completely possessing him, indeed, that it all but seemed the
packet-tracks.  In the length he attains, and in his baleen, the Fin-back
pale waters, paler cheeks, where'er I sail.  The envious billows sidelong
pallor unrestingly glides through the green of the groves --why is this phantom
palsy.  Nor did the whetstone which the harpooneers carried in their pockets,
part of every shore the round globe over.  There is no life in thee, now,
parts above mentioned.  In various sorts of whales, they form such irregular
peculiar horn being originally mistaken for a peaked nose.  The creature is
peculiarity is most vividly hit by the French in the name they bestow upon
peculiarity on ship-board, arising from the existence of the harpooneer class
perchance, the knife grazed against the plate; and chewed it noiselessly;
perhaps --either from professional inexperience, or incompetency, or timidity,
perhaps aught else.  For, when swimming before his exulting pursuers, with
perhaps expired from out me.  Perchance, too, it would have dropped ye dead.
perhaps, in the mere fancying of the eternal frosted desolateness reigning at
perhaps, will it fail to be eventually perceived, that behind those forms and
perils of this new and daring warfare; such men protesting that although
perils; for what knows he, this New England colt, of the black bisons of
personified, and made practically assailable in Moby Dick.  He piled upon the
pervading mankind and nature; and every strange, half-seen, gliding,
phantom futures!  Stand by me, hold me, bind me, O ye blessed influences!
phantoms; all ghosts rising in a milk-white fog --Yea, while these terrors
phrensies of affright?  There is no remembrance in him of any gorings of wild
pilot-cloth.  And though of all men the moody captain of the Pequod was the
pirate.  Very savage.  He is only found, I think, in the Pacific.  He is
planks so familiar to his tread, that they were all over dented, like
play herein, jealousy presiding over all creations.  But not my master, man,
pleasant the mast-head; nay, to a dreamy meditative man it is delightful.
plumbs the blue.  The diver sun --slow dived from noon, --goes down; my soul
point is, in what internal respect does the whale differ from other fish.
poison, and as such, preparations of it brought immense prices.  It was also
poor pegging
popularize profundities, and all truth is profound.  Winding far down from
popularly regarded.  And as for those who, previously hearing of the White
portentous
prairies, which this instant they may be trampling into dust.  Thus, then,
prairies; all these, to Ishmael, are as the shaking of that buffalo robe to
precise time of his bodily dismemberment.  Then, in darting at the monster,
predictions from without, as verifications of the foregoing things within.
presence, in the character of Abjectus, or the Slave.  It is not the least
present may be numbered: --I., the Grampus; II., the Black Fish; III., the
presented himself, always to the bravest Indians he was the object of
presumed to help himself, this must have seemed to him tantamount to larceny
primitively pursued in the North; seated on their hatches, these men will
probability.  For as the secrets of the currents in the seas have never yet
problem to man, was never a problem to the whale.  So that here, in the real
process.  Still less is known of the Thrasher than of the Killer.  Both are
prodigious long horn of the Narwhale, which for a long period after hung in
prodigious long upliftings of their legs, those old astronomers were wont to
professed naturalist.  From what I have seen of him at a distance, I should
professional superior; though always, by them, familiarly regarded as their
profound magnetic meditations, as to fail being attracted occasionally towards
progenitors, the builders of Babel, must doubtless, by their tower, have
properly speaking the thickest watch-coat is no more of a house than the
prophet and the fulfiller one.  That's more than ye, ye great gods, ever
prudent isle were inclined to
qualified and set on edge, for a pursuit so full of rage and wildness as the
quarried out of it!  Spanish Sailor ( Aside.) He wants to bully, ah! --the
quarter-boat, has just been taking an observation of the sun; and is now
quenchless feud seemed mine.  With greedy ears I learned the history of that
question, those dents looked deeper, even as his nervous step that morning
race from Adam down; and then, as if his chest had been a mortar, he burst
rain; nor the sight of her wide field of leaning spires, wrenched
raised a whale yet.  Whales are scarce as hen's teeth whenever thou art up
rather are ye predictions than warnings, ye shadows!  Yet not so much
ratification of his purpose with his crew, you would have seen him go to a
reaching out his knife and fork, between which the slice of beef was locked,
reality for them to cling to.  And as the sea surpasses the land in this
reaped away ahab's leg, as a mower a blade of grass in the field.  No turbaned
reasons that there is such a dumb blankness, full of meaning, in a wide
rebelling; and worse yet, to hate with touch of pity!  For in his eyes I read
recognised him for one.  He is of moderate octavo size, varying from fifteen
recollection.  Captain Ahab, said Tashtego, that white whale must be the
refer to piles of old log-books beside him, wherein were set down the seasons
regarded as alien.  Hence, all the smaller, spouting,
regarded as premonitory of the advance of the great sperm whale.  BOOK II.
regularly launched in pursuit of the game, the people of that island erected
relaxed, and in no instance done away.  Indeed, many are the Nantucket ships
relieved from some curious restraint; for, tipping all sorts of knowing winks
remarkable hue, nor yet his deformed lower jaw, that so much invested the
remotest and most sullen waters; his straight and single lofty jet rising
rending, goring bison herds are as present as to the deserted wild foal of the
repeated disastrous repulses, all accumulating and piling their terrors upon
resembles the right whale, but is of a less portly girth, and a lighter
reserved for that daily purpose on the upper part of his ivory leg.  From his
resting in the top to have a chat with Queequeg, or any one else off duty whom
retiring nature, he eludes both hunters and philosophers.  Though no coward,
right into it!  English Sailor Blood!  but that old man's a grand old cove!
right with that important rope, he likewise takes up the old burden, and with
rigid pallor of an apoplexy that fixes its own distortions.  I know that, to
rolls swashing 'gainst the side!  Stand by for reefing, hearties!  the winds
roses, with its own blank tinge --pondering all this, the palsied universe lies
rostrated whales, are the fishermen's names for a few sorts.  In connexion
rotund and jolly girth; indeed, he is of quite a neat and gentleman-like
round him, then he feels
round its neck, with the ship's time and place; and then letting it escape.
rumors which sometimes circulate there.  For not only are whalemen as a body
run down; my heart the all-controlling weight, I have no key to lift again.
sadder souls, to those vast Roman halls of Thermes; where far beneath the
sadly destitute of anything approaching to a cosy inhabitiveness, or adapted
said to have gone by the board, in the dread gale of God's wrath; therefore,
sailing in the pequod on the present voyage, sat brooding on his brow.  Nor is
sails in all imaginations?  Not Coleridge first threw that spell; but God's
salt-sea warriors would rise and depart; to his credulous, fable-mongering
same hue is made the emblem of many touching, noble things --the innocence of
same intense bigotry of purpose in his aspect.  It drew near the close of day.
same that some call Moby Dick.  Moby Dick?  shouted Ahab.  Do ye know the
sapling cannot, Starbuck!  And what is it?  Reckon it. 'Tis but to help strike
saw it.  Well, Stubb, wise Stubb --that's my title --well, Stubb, what of it,
say dainty.  It seemed hardly possible that by such comparatively small
say that he was about the bigness of a grampus.  He is very savage --a sort of
say, that the whale in question must have been no other than moby Dick.  Yet
scenery of the Antarctic seas; where at times, by some infernal trick of
scimetars in scabbards.  But, though these barbarians dined in the cabin, and
scuttle-butt near the taffrail.  In this manner, they passed the buckets to
scuttle.  The second Emir lounges about the rigging
sea charts, spread them before him on his screwed-down table.  Then seating
sea from Nantucket; you're the chap.  Grin away; we'll see what turns up.
sea, is this--the first lives aft, the last forward.  Hence, in whale-ships
sea, no more to rise for ever.  Heed it well, ye Pantheists!
sea-unicorn's horn was in ancient days regarded as the great antidote against
seaman.  The crew alone now drink.  Round with it, round!  Short draughts
seamen taking their regular turns (as at the helm), and relieving each other
secret intelligence from the Deity --mostly swim in
securities; fall of stocks; are never troubled with the thought of what you
see in him outrageous strength, with an inscrutable malice sinewing it.
seeing what a faithful friend and comforter it must have been, while with
seemingly purposeless questions.  But, they were all eagerness again, as Ahab,
seems blasphemous.  Hark ye yet again, --the little lower layer.  All visible
seize us, let us add, that even the king of terrors, when personified by the
seizing the line-knife from his broken prow, had dashed at the whale, as an
separate colors, black above and white below.  The white comprises part of his
separate voyage; the irregularity of the times of sailing from home; all
separately regarded, which heightens the intolerable hideousness of that
shall have for dinner --for all your meals for three years and more are snugly
shape of the Folio volume, but the Octavo volume does.
sharp ridge.  Let him go.  I know little more of him, nor does anybody else.
shelf or chest of drawers in your body, and no more can you make a
shelf, he goes down rollicking, so far at least as he remains visible from
shifted to any other soil, and here there's none but the crew's cursed clay.
ship's planks, and in the Glacier's case, perhaps, to there having been so
ship, and for ever threw shifting gleams and shadows of lines upon his
ship.  But for all this, the great negro was wonderfully abstemious, not to
shipmate, will ye?  It's the three soaked biscuits ye eat for supper turning
ships take those absent-minded young philosophers to task, upbraiding them
shipwrecked, instead of rainbows speaking hope and solace to his misery,
shirr!  Here have I heard all their chat just now, and the white whale
shivered.  Once more, and finally, the replenished pewter went the rounds
short-sighted; what use, then, to strain the visual nerve?  They have left
shout; while the mariners began to gaze curiously at each other, as if
shuddering sort of little fellow, this bread-faced steward; the progeny of a
shut up in the caved trunk of his body, there fed upon the sullen paws of its
shy; always going solitary; unexpectedly rising to the surface in the
signifying nothing.  Finally: It was stated at the outset, that this system
silence, then, that voices thee. ( aside) something shot from my dilated
single hail from below, however madly invoked to befriend by their counsels
sir -- ( Aside) he's my superior, he has his too, if I'm not mistaken. -- Aye,
sit upon it.  Drink, ye harpooneers!  drink and swear, ye men that man the
sitting silly and dumfoundered before awful Ahab.  Now, Ahab and his three
sky?  Hear I the roaring streams from Pirohitee's peak of spears, when they
sleep, this dream is on ye, move your foot or hand an inch; slip your hold
sleepiest of sunsets?  Or, to choose a wholly unsubstantial instance, purely
sleeping-time, when they passed through it to their own peculiar quarters.
small and snug contrivances in which men temporarily isolate themselves.  Your
small gold-fish has its glassy globe.  His heaven-insulting purpose, God may
small indeed.  For, owing to the large number of whale-cruisers; the
small-headed, bluff-chested, and with the dignity of a thousand monarchs in
smitten tree gives birth to its fungi; but, in maritime life, far more than
snorts to think of it.  Stand up amid the general hurricane, thy one tost
snow's caps turn to jig it now.  They'll shake their tassels soon.  Now would
snow-white bull; and though to the noble Iroquois, the midwinter sacrifice
snuffed in the sublime life of the worlds.  Not by beef or by bread, are
so small that it is not very readily discernible.  But the next time you have
so the appellation must at last have come to be bestowed upon the whale from
so wide, and in those for ever exiled waters, I had lost the miserable
so, too, in most of the American whalers the harpooneers are lodged in the
so; thou reddenest and palest; my heat has melted thee to anger-glow.  But
so?  Because a laugh's the wisest, easiest answer to all that's queer; and
social arrogance.  With one mind, their intent eyes all fastened upon the old
social equal.  Now, the grand distinction drawn between officer and man at
solecism of terms there are birds called grey albatrosses; and these I have
some dim, unsuspected way, he might have seemed the gliding great demon of
some of these instances it has been declared that the interval of time between
some of those instances wherein this thing of whiteness --though for the time
some sixteen feet in length, while its horn averages five feet, though some
somewhat larger than the Huzza Porpoise, but much of the same general make.
somewhere by the sharkish sea.  The white whale is their demigorgon.  Hark!
somewhere those things must exist.  Though in many of its aspects this visible
son, and little boy of this weary family party.  His were the shinbones of
soon shows symptoms of concluding his repast, then Flask must bestir
sort in the wind.  Tish!  the bucket!
soul were nigh him resumed his heavy turns upon the deck.  With bent head and
souls they would rather not see whales than otherwise.  But all in vain; those
souls!  question that proud, sad king!  A family likeness!  aye, he did beget
sound of the hinges of their own jaws, the harpooneers chewed their food with
soundings; heart and helm they both go down; he never rests till blue water
spangled with golden gleamings.  Nor was it his unwonted magnitude, nor his
speaking, was slowly rubbing the gold piece against the skirts of his jacket,
specially employed in the celebration of the Passion of our Lord; though in
spectralness
spherical ripples, and this gnomon-like fin stands up and casts shadows upon
spine, and meet it! ( Leaps to his feet.) Portuguese Sailor How the sea
spiritual exasperations.  The White Whale swam before him as the monomaniac
splice hands on it, now?  I think ye do look brave.  Aye, aye!  shouted the
splinters, or drive them back in consternation to their ship.  Already several
split jibs!  tear yourselves!  Tashtego ( Quietly smoking.) That's a white
spout is a big one, like a whole shock of wheat, and white as a pile of our
squall!  the squall!  jump, my jollies! ( They scatter.) Pip ( shrinking
squall, something as they burst a waterspout with a pistol --fire your ship
stair-like formation of all four sides of those edifices; whereby, with
stampedoes of her frantic seas: nor the tearlessness of arid skies that never
stand before me; and I their match.  Oh, hard!  that to fire others, the
stand there with your irons; and ye, stout mariners, ring me in, that I may
stand, lost in the infinite series of the sea, with nothing ruffled but the
steady, ivory stride was heard, as to and fro he paced his old rounds, upon
steeds; though even in the higher mysteries of the most august religions it
stem him.  And as if the now tested reality of his might had in former
steward, thrusting his pale loaf-of-bread face from the cabin-scuttle,
steward.  And then the three harpooneers were bidden to the feast, they being
still further in their superstitions; declaring Moby Dick not only ubiquitous,
still standing upon the top of the uncompleted tower.  For small erections may
stone pillar in the desert and spent the whole latter portion of
storm-lashed guns, on which the sea-salt cakes! 4th Nantucket Sailor He has
stormed his general sanity, and carried it, and turned all its concentred
stowed in casks, and your bill of fare is immutable.  In one of those southern
straight wake, yet the arbitrary vein in which at these times he is said to
strangely tallies with the same quality in the Polar quadruped.  This
strike the imagination with unwonted power.  For, it was not so much his
strikes more of panic to the soul than that redness which affrights in blood.
striking than his baleen?  Yet we have seen that by his baleen it is
stronger I shouted, and more did I hammer and clinch my oath, because of the
subdivisions based upon the most inconclusive differences, that some
subserve.  That certain sultanism of his brain, which had otherwise in a good
subtle demonisms of life and thought; all evil, to crazy Ahab, were visibly
such a furious trope may stand, his special lunacy
such a relish that there was a report to it.  They dined like lords; they
such an apparition as the Sperm Whale was not for mortal man.  That to attempt
such ripe, bursting grapes.  Sicilian Sailor ( Reclining.) Tell me not of
such vast altitudes, and the natural conceit of what a fearfulness it would
such vast swiftness to the most widely distant points.  It is a thing well
sucking his own paws; so, in his inclement, howling old age, Ahab's soul,
sudden racket in the hold below.  And poor little Flask, he was the youngest
suddenly and nervously twitched them; meanwhile, glancing intently from
sufferable latitudes, the ship, with mild stun'sails spread, floated across
sultan's step has died away, and Starbuck, the first Emir, has every reason to
summoned them there for the purpose of witnessing a pedestrian feat.  But this
sun do that, then could I do the other; since there is ever a sort of fair
sunlight, that smiled on, as if at a birth or a bridal.  His three boats stove
sunrise nobly spurred me, so the sunset soothed.  No more.  This lovely
sunset skies and woods; yea, and the gilded velvets of butterflies, and the
superadd the official supremacy of a ship-master, then, by inference, you
superiority what it will, it can never assume the practical, available
superstitiously inclined, was the unearthly conceit that Moby Dick was
suppose that he is seated, then Starbuck rouses from his quietude, takes a
supremacy over other men, without the aid of some sort of external arts and
surface of the Polar Sea,
surprise than the rest, and at the mention of the wrinkled brow and crooked
surprise, but at last seemed struck with a thought which somewhat explained
surrenderest to a hypo, Ishmael.  Tell me, why this strong young colt, foaled
surrounding it somewhat resembles a dial, with its style and wavy hour-lines
suspended in chains over his head, continually rocked with the motion of the
sweet cardinals!  your own condescension, that shall bend ye to it.  I do not
swell to whelm my track; let them; but first I pass.  Yonder, by the
swim, generally embraces some few miles in width (more or less, as the vein
swings himself to the deck, and in an even, unexhilarated voice, saying,
sword-fish and bill-fish; though some sailors tell me that the Narwhale
symbol of their faction, the desperate White Hoods of Ghent murder their
symbolize whatever grand or
system does not proceed, inasmuch as the Porpoise is the smallest of the
table; this is marvellous, sometimes most comical.  Wherefore this
take it, that the earliest standers of mast-heads were the old Egyptians;
tales of
tarpaulins they hailed the act of nailing the gold to the mast.  It's a
taste, observe ye, else come satiety.  Eh, Pagan? ( Nudging.) Tahitan
tells us, that in the early times of the whale fishery, ere ships were
ten to one, let those very officers the next moment go down to their customary
terrible casualty which had overtaken him.  The report of his undeniable
terrible.  From its snowy aspect, the gauntleted ghost of the Southern Seas
terror.  But there are other instances where this whiteness loses all that
terrors, and often in the precipitancy of their flight dash themselves
than the ugliest abortion.  Why should this be so?  Nor, in quite other
that Flask once admitted in private, that ever since he had arisen to the
that I wear?  this Iron Crown of Lombardy.  Yet is it bright with many a gem;
that as in essence whiteness is not so much a color as the visible absence of
that bird upon our deck.  For neither had I then read the Rhyme, nor knew
that by its indefiniteness it shadows forth the heartless voids and
that dazzlingly confounds. 'Tis iron --that I know--not gold. 'Tis split, too
that every dismembering or death that he caused, was not wholly regarded as
that fish.  The Romish mass for the dead begins with Requiem eternam
that ground in search of his prey.  So assured, indeed, is the fact concerning
that his bones might be picked, the simple-witted Steward all but shattered
that in due rotation with the other seamen my first mast-head came round.  In
that in truth it is not so, is plainly evinced by an item for which Obed
that intensified terror.  As for the white shark, the white gliding
that it seemed the mechanical humming of the wheels of his vitality in him.
that of a whale-ship
that several vessels reported to have encountered, at such or such a time, or
that spotless, faithful creature being held the purest envoy they could send
that suddenly sweeping his sickle-shaped lower jaw beneath him, Moby Dick had
that way.  And this is the Bibliographical system here adopted; and it is the
that well replenished little case-bottle, so nicely tucked in on one side of
that while in the open air of the deck some officers will, upon provocation,
the Blue Whale; etc.  From Icelandic, Dutch, and old English authorities,
the British Greenland Fishery, under the corrupted title of Specksioneer,
the Coppered Whale; the Elephant Whale; the Iceberg Whale; the Quog Whale;
the Macrocephalus of the Long Words.  He is, without doubt, the largest
the Pacific, so far as it is known.  The only English name, by which he has
the Sperm Whale fishery at large, than to the individual cause.  In that way,
the Vision of St.  John, white robes are given to the redeemed, and the
the art of human malice omitted so potent an auxiliary.  How wildly it
the auger-hole there, and with one hand grasping a shroud, he ordered Starbuck
the bare mention of that name, while the thought of Virginia's Blue Ridge is
the bird to be an albatross.  Yet, in saying this, I do but indirectly
the bison; but, alas!  only to fall into the hidden snare of the Indian.
the black terrific Ahab, and the periodical tumultuous visitations of these
the bookbinder's Quarto volume in its diminished form does not preserve the
the bright waist, that line streaks him from stem to stern, with two
the castle at Windsor.  An Irish author avers that the Earl of Leicester,
the circle preliminary to scalping him.  He was naturally a very nervous,
the coasts of foreign lands, if by night he hear the roar of breakers, starts
the common apprehension, this phenomenon of whiteness is not confessed to be
the crockery hanging round him in the pantry, by his sudden fits of the
the dead level of the mass.  Such large virtue lurks in these small things
the dead which most appals the gazer, is the marble pallor lingering there;
the deck owing to the resistance of the water, but to shoot down upon them is
the deck, reversing all other processions, by bringing up the rear with music.
the deep, yet is he not popularly classed among whales.  But possessing all
the direction taken by any one whale be straight as a surveyor's parallel, and
the distracted decks upon which they gaze; however it may be surmised, that
the far horizon; but lulled into such an opium-like listlessness of vacant,
the fathom-deep life of the whale.  That captain was Ahab.  And then it was,
the following
the frightened colt!  Though neither knows where lie the nameless things of
the frozen seas.  In the fire-side narrative of Captain Sleet, entitled A
the gay, embattled, bantering bow, but only to drag dark Ahab after it, where
the goblet end?  Turn up the socket!  So, so; now, ye cup-bearers, advance.
the grand distinctive features of the leviathan, most naturalists have
the great Pope washes the feet of beggars, using his tiara for ewer?  Oh, my
the group; he stood for an instant searchingly eyeing every man of his crew.
the halyards!  in top-gallant sails!  Stand by to reef topsails!  All The
the hammer uplifted in one hand, exhibiting the gold with the other, and with
the idea also, that this same spermaceti was that quickening humor of the
the infernal orgies!  that revelry is forward!  mark the unfaltering silence
the last person down at the dinner,
the least; but my one cogged circle fits into all their various wheels, and
the lip in eating --an ugly sound enough --so much so, that the trembling
the mariner.  Full of fine spirits, they invariably come from the breezy
the mask!  How can the prisoner reach outside except by thrusting through the
the most gamesome and light-hearted of all
the muffled rollings of a milky sea; the bleak rustlings of the festooned
the northern American coast.  He has been frequently captured there, and towed
the number who as yet had actually and knowingly given battle to him, was
the occasional flap of a sail, and the steady hum of the unceasingly
the periodicalness of the sperm whale's resorting to given waters, that many
the plains, like an Ohio; or whether with his circumambient subjects browsing
the previous repast, often the pale Dough-Boy was fain to bring on a great
the prime agent in exaggerating the terror of objects otherwise terrible; nor
the punctilious externals, at least, of the quarter-deck are seldom materially
the rack), together with a powder flask and shot, for the purpose of popping
the resurrection; they must kiss their last, and come to judgment.  That's
the saline beef; his would have been the drumsticks.  For Flask to have
the same imperial hue; and though this pre-eminence in it applies to the
the same snow-white quadruped in the royal standard; and the Hanoverian flag
the same sorcery, however modified; --can we thus hope to light upon some
the seas of life, --all this to explain, would be to dive deeper than Ishmael
the second species of my Folios?  It is the Great Mysticetus of the English
the ship denied it to him, on account of its clotting his clear, sunny
the soft feeling of the human in me, yet will I try to fight ye, ye grim,
the solid metal; aye, steel skull, mine; the sort that needs no helmet in the
the spread through the whole world-wide whaling-fleet of the special
the strangest, saddest city thou can'st see.  For Lima has taken the white
the sun -- it is a sixteen dollar piece, men.  D'ye see it?  Mr. Starbuck,
the surface.  When the sea is moderately calm, and slightly marked with
the top-maul; a white whale.  Skin your eyes for him, men; look sharp for
the tranquil tropics, and, to all appearances, the old man's delirium seemed
the two assaults could not have exceeded very many days.  Hence, by inference,
the various hours you spend at the mast-head would amount to several entire
the vessel's leaving her port; even though she may have fifteen thousand
the way -- that's it; thy throat ain't spoiled with eating Amsterdam butter.
the whale which for more than two centuries past has been hunted by the Dutch
the whales from the waters, he states as follows: On account of their warm
the whales, making more gay foam and white water generally than any other of
the winds in the cordage; nor yet the hollow flap of the sails against the
the wonderfulness and fearfulness of the
the wrinkled surface, it may well be supposed that the watery circle
thee; I see!  the billow lifts thee!  Speak, but speak! --Aye, aye!  thy
their departure, taking place in inverted order to their arrival, the canvas
their forecastle appellations; for possibly such a list may be valuable to
their opera-glasses at home.  Why, thou monkey, said a harpooneer to one of
their spirits penetrate through the thick haze of the future, and descry what
them for other and more private ends than they were legitimately intended to
them to produce their weapons.  Then ranging them before him near the capstan,
them, till they are left living on with half a heart and half a lung.  That
them.  Alone, in such remotest waters, that though you sailed a thousand
them.  BOOK I. ( Folio), CHAPTER V. ( Razor Back). --Of this whale little is
then, God, mad'st thou the ring?  Mate's Voice from the Quarter Deck Hands by
then, by a dexterous sleight, pitching his cap up into the mizentop for a
then, how soon would their aghast and righteous souls have wrenched the ship
then, the plebeian herds crouch abased before the tremendous centralization.
theoretic species denominated Whalebone whales, that is, whales with baleen.
there like a leech, till the mighty brute is worried to death.  The Killer
there might be quoted other lists of uncertain whales, blessed with all
therefore may not be able to recall them now.  Why to the man of untutored
therein certainly must have been some touch of mundane grandeur.  But he who
these assaults --not restricted to sprained wrists and ancles, broken limbs,
these fabulous narrations are almost fully equalled by the realities of the
these lads, we've been cruising now hard upon three years, and thou hast not
these things do in some cases tend to beget a less rigorous discipline than in
these, with other circumstances, direct and indirect, long obstructed
these; yet in their full terribleness, even to the bloodthirsty item of
they can be killed; and this sunken-eyed young Platonist will tow you ten
they not only eye its greatest marvels, but, hand to jaw, give battle to
they revolve.  Or, if you will, like so many ant-hills of powder, they all
they were scarcely ever in it except at meal-times, and just before
they would ostentatiously sharpen their knives; that grating sound did not
thin, some of these whales will yield you upwards of thirty gallons of oil.
thine eye!  more intolerable than fiends' glarings is a doltish stare!  So,
thine, mannikin!  White skin, white liver!  Spanish Sailor ( meeting him)
things whose peculiarities are indiscriminately dispersed among all sorts of
things, nay, the very veil of the Christian's Deity; and yet should be as it
think there's naught beyond.  But 'tis enough.  He tasks me; he heaps me; I
thinking over it ever since, and that ha, ha's the final consequence.  Why
this admirable volume, all standers of mast-heads are furnished with a
this capstan; and ye mates, flank me with your lances; and ye harpooneers,
this custom has now become obsolete; turn we then to the one proper mast-head,
this in our old Mogul's wine; it's quite as deadening to some as
this mere aspect of all-pervading whiteness makes him more strangely hideous
this noble horse, that it was his spiritual whiteness chiefly, which so
this old Dutch official is still retained, but his former dignity is sadly
this planet.  But not so did it seem to Ahab, who knew the sets of all tides
this same humpbacked whale and the Greenland whale, each of these has baleen;
this to be true; yet, were it not for the whiteness, you would not have
those enviable little tents or pulpits, called crow's-nests, in which the
those times, also, spermaceti was exceedingly scarce, not being used for
though a smaller one.  His oil is not very valuable.  He has baleen.  He is
though commanding worship, at the same time enforced a certain nameless
though the line of advance be strictly confined to its own unavoidable,
though there were times when, owing to peculiar circumstances connected with
though uncorking a bottle -- like him--him-- Corkscrew!  cried Ahab, aye,
though without dissent this point be fixed, how is mortal man to account for
thought, or rather vague, nameless horror concerning him, which at times by
thousands of miles from Oregon, still when he smells that savage musk, the
three cup-bearers to my three pagan kinsmen there --yon three most honorable
three level, radiating lances at their crossed centre; while so doing,
three savages, Dough-Boy's whole life was one continual lip-quiver.
throbbings shook it.  Though bodily unharmed, it uttered cries, as some
throned on torsoes!  So with a broken throne, the great gods mock that
through a dark blue sea, leaving a milky-way wake of creamy foam, all
throw cold water on the subject; but excuse me.  Maltese Sailor Me too;
thus multitudinously baptized.  What then is the whale, which I include in
tide flow wide.  The hated whale has the round watery world to swim in, as the
till all was over.  It was a sight to see Queequeg seated over against
till he spouts black blood and rolls fin out.  What say ye, men, will ye
times, but never yet saw him captured.  BOOK III. ( Duodecimo), CHAPTER III.
to Moby Dick, the earlier days of the Sperm Whale fishery, when it was
to a land beast of the unicorn nature.  The Narwhale has a very picturesque,
to ascribe the peculiar terror he bred, more, as it were, to the perils of
to be counted down in dollars from the mint.  He was intent on an audacious,
to be vague or inexpressive, I shall say so, and suggest another.  I do so
to breed a comfortable localness of feeling, such as pertains to a bed, a
to describe, as he does, all the little detailed conveniences of his
to go aft at dinner-time, and get a peep at Flask through the cabin sky-light,
to half sob and half shout.  God bless ye, men.  Steward!  go draw the great
to hunt him!  Oh, thou big white God aloft there somewhere in yon darkness,
to impart to it aught fearful, but, nevertheless, is found to exert over us
to me of blasphemy, man; I'd strike the sun if it insulted me.  For could the
to say deprecatory and humble air towards him, as he sits at the head of the
to the Great Spirit with the annual tidings of their own fidelity; and though
to the iron way!
to the unimaginative mind is there aught of terror in those appearances whose
to twenty-five feet in length, and of corresponding dimensions round the
to vigilance, and feels just enough of trepidation to sharpen all his
to ye; come and see if ye can swerve me.  Swerve me?  ye cannot swerve me,
together with their common vigilance, intrepidity, and hard work; though all
too, Captain, cried Queequeg disjointedly, all twiske-tee betwisk, like
too, all the added moodiness which always afterwards, to the very day of
too, said Daggoo, very bushy, even for a parmacetty, and mighty quick,
too, upon that ribbed
torrents' beds, unerringly I rush!  Naught's an obstacle, naught's an angle
tossed pack of cards; --it is not these things alone which make tearless Lima,
touching Emperors and Kings, I must not conceal that I have only to do with
towering main-mast in Baltimore, and like one of Hercules' pillars, his
tracing lines and courses upon the deeply marked chart of his forehead.  But
transit over the widest watery spaces, the outblown rumors of the White Whale
trappings and housings are denied me.  Oh, Ahab!  what shall be grand in thee,
treats us to a very scientific account of his experiments in this crow's-nest,
trembling reverence and awe.  Nor can it be questioned from what stands on
tribe; and though, besides all this, whiteness has been
true histories of these deadly encounters.  For not only do fabulous rumors
ubiquitous; that he had actually been encountered in opposite latitudes at
unaccompanied, secluded White Whale had haunted those uncivilized seas mostly
unbounded prairie sheeted with driven snow, no shadow of tree or twig to
unclad body; for as the soul is glued inside
uncommon bulk that so much distinguished him from other sperm whales, but, as
unconscious reverie is this absent-minded youth by the blending cadence of
undeniable dark side of mankind --devilish dark at that.  No offence.  Daggoo
underneath for umbrellas, comforters, and coats.  In front is a leather rack,
undiscernible form, seems to him the embodiment of those elusive thoughts that
unensanguined billows hundreds of leagues away, his unsullied jet would once
unexempt from that ignorance and superstitiousness hereditary to all sailors;
unfinished, even as the great Cathedral of Cologne was left, with the crane
unfrequent instances of great ferocity, cunning, and malice in the monster
ungodly old man, chasing with curses a Job's whale round the world, at the
uniform turn that he made, now at the main-mast and now at the binnacle, you
united in the opinion that the reasons set forth were altogether insufficient.
universality.  What I mean by these two statements may perhaps be respectively
unknown in his own proper individuality, and when his oil was only
unrelenting fangs of some incurable idea; such an one, could he be found,
untutored things are forced to feed --Oh, life! 'tis now that I do feel the
unworshipping things, that live; and seek, and give no reasons for the torrid
up!  Dutch Sailor Grand snoozing to-night, maty; fat night for that.  I mark
upon authoritative record years ago by Scoresby, that some whales have been
upon the broad sea keep tossing themselves to heaven like caps in a
upon two thin parallel sticks (almost peculiar to whalemen) called the t'
usages, as it were, he sometimes masked himself; incidentally making use of
vanity of glory: there's the insanity of life!  Besides, if it were so that
varieties, most of which, however, are little known.  Broad-nosed whales and
veil; and there is a higher horror in this whiteness of her woe.  Old as
vertically from the hinder part of the back, of an angular shape, and with a
very ancient and interesting one, let us in some measure expatiate here.  I
very sharp pointed end.  Even if not the slightest other part of the creature
viewing of those gallant whales That blew at every strand.  Oh, your tubs in
views what seems a boundless church-yard grinning upon him with its lean ice
violence and revenge.  For some time past, though at intervals only, the
vocation, revived in the minds of the hunters.  So that overawed by the rumors
voyage, on account of such dark symptoms, the calculating people of that
voyage, saith Black Letter, on bended knees he presented to her highness a
wag thy ears.  Jig it, men, I say; merry's the word; hurrah!  Damn me, won't
waist.  He swims in herds; he is never regularly hunted, though his oil is
waiter who waits upon cannibals.  Not a napkin should he carry on his arm,
wake, and further on, hunted by its wolfish gurglings.  The long howl thrills
wakes round the world, and never make you one pint of sperm the richer.  Nor
wall?  To me, the white whale is that wall, shoved near to me.  Sometimes I
walrus spouts much like a whale, but the walrus is not a fish, because he is
warm nostrils reddening through his cool milkiness; in whatever aspect he
warping memories of traditions and of towns.  Long I gazed at that prodigy
was elsewhere thrown out --a peculiar snow-white wrinkled forehead, and a
was not a great while after the affair of the pipe, that one morning shortly
was not to be driven from his place by fogs or frosts, rain, hail, or sleet;
was this conceit altogether without some faint show of superstitious
was threading a maze of currents and eddies, with a view to the more certain
watch below, I ascended to the overclouded deck; and there, dashed upon the
watchmakers.
waters, butter was at a premium, and therefore was not for him, a subaltern;
waves with thoughts, that at last he loses his identity; takes the mystic
waves.  The tranced ship indolently rolls; the drowsy trade winds blow;
we cannot give these Babel builders priority over the Egyptians.  And that the
wedge aside.  I would up heart, were it not like lead.  But my whole clock's
well done; almost drained.  That way it went, this way it comes.  Hand it me
well nigh ineffable was it, that I almost despair of putting it in a
were believed to have come from the Holy Land by an underground passage);
were eyeing him, for he looked not unlike the weather horizon when a storm is
were possessed, that at times his hate seemed almost theirs; the White Whale
were simultaneously quaffed down with a hiss.  Starbuck paled, and turned, and
were substituted.  For with the charts of all four oceans before him, Ahab
were, who even in the face of these things were ready to give chase to Moby
were.  I laugh and hoot at ye, ye cricket-players, ye pugilists, ye deaf
western world, which to the eyes of the old trappers and hunters revived the
whale is --i.  e.  a spouting fish, with a horizontal tail.  BOOK III.
whale is, I do by no means exclude from the leviathanic brotherhood any sea
whale of the English and the right whale of the Americans.  But they precisely
whale will be elsewhere treated of at some length, with reference to
whale with a wrinkled brow and a crooked jaw; whosoever of ye raises me that
whale with natural terror, as that unexampled, intelligent malignity which,
whale's white hump the sum of all the general rage and hate felt by his whole
whale, the Horned whale, and the Unicorn whale.  He is certainly a curious
whale, to keep up the supply of cheap oil for domestic employment --as some
whale-craft, this seems as good a place as any to set down a little domestic
whale-fleet.  The large importance attached to the harpooneer's vocation is
whale.  there is a deal of obscurity concerning the identity of the species
whaleman, I know by reputation, but not personally.  I shall enumerate them by
whaleman.  Forced into familiarity, then, with such prodigies as these; and
whalemen, especially among those whaling nations not sailing under the
whalemen, on a long three or four years' voyage, as often happens, the sum of
whales, shall hereafter be caught and marked, then he can readily be
whales, without any regard to what may be the nature of their structure in
whales.  Above, you have all the Leviathans of note.  But there are a rabble
whales; and have presented them with their passports to quit the kingdom of
whaling ground) the command of the ship's deck is also his; therefore the
whaling life, a sublime uneventfulness invests you; you hear no news; read
when I was before the mast.  There's the fruits of promotion now; there's the
when extreme political superstitions invest them, that in some royal
when with ivory leg he stepped ashore at last, no Nantucketer thought him
whence, in peculiar moods, comes that gigantic ghostliness over the soul at
where's your girls?  Who but a fool would take his left hand by his right,
whereby, even in the limitless, uncharted seas, he revealed his identity, at
whether those jolly lads bethink them of what they are dancing over.  I'll
which the mystic sign gives forth such hints; yet with me, as with the colt,
which this spermaceti was really derived.  BOOK I. ( Folio), CHAPTER II.
while the whales of this order, though smaller than those of the former
while yet all a-rush to encounter the whale, could see naught in that brute
whispered Stubb, what's that for?  methinks it rings most vast, but hollow.
white coral beach, surrounded by his warlike but still deferential cubs.  In
white curds of the whale's direful wrath into the serene, exasperating
white water; if ye see but a bubble, sing out.  All this while Tashtego,
white whale then, Tash?  Does he fan-tail a little curious, sir, before he
white whale, I say, resumed Ahab, as he threw down
white-headed whale, with three holes punctured in his starboard fluke --look
white-shrouded bear or shark.  Bethink thee of the albatross, whence come those
whiteness it is which imparts such an abhorrent mildness, even
whiteness that so stirred me?  Second: To the native Indian of Peru, the
whiteness which invests him, a thing expressed by the name he bears.  The
whither leads his shaft by the ever shifting, muffled sound of his pick?  Who
who become famous more through their infinite inferiority to the choice hidden
who by those rumors, at least, had heard of the White Whale, few of those
who, as a set, rather incline to the opinion that by rights the ship's cabin
whole book is but a draught --nay, but the draught of a draught.  Oh Time,
whose sole knowledge of the leviathan is restricted to the ignoble monster
widely contrasting serenity of those seductive seas in which we South fishers
wild horses, whose pastures in those days were only fenced by the Rocky
wild rumors of all sorts fail to exaggerate, and still the more horrify the
will derive the cause of that peculiarity of sea-life just mentioned.
will not wholly account for it) that makes the White Tower of London tell so
will strike, strike through
winter that dreary, howling Patagonian Cape; then it was, that his torn body
wish I could fist a bit of old-fashioned beef in the forecastle, as I used to
with Stubb and Flask, had thus far been eyeing his superior with increasing
with a hooked, Roman bill sublime.  At intervals, it arched forth its vast
with a small compass he kept there for the purpose of counteracting the
with housings more resplendent than gold and silver-beaters could have
with malice in it; all that cracks the sinews and cakes the brain; all the
with not feeling sufficient interest in the voyage; half-hinting that they
with some touch of pleasantness, Dinner, Mr. Stubb, and descends the
with such undeviating exactitude, that no ship ever sailed her course, by any
with the one then known in England as the Greenland or Right Whale.  It was
with their lances, and the rest of the ship's company formed a circle round
with this appellative of Whalebone whales , it is of great importance to
within the very heart of this spiked Hotel de Cluny where we here stand
without superstitious accompaniments, were sufficiently hardy not to flee
wondrous power and velocity in swimming, as to defy all present pursuit from
woods, burying himself in the hollow of a tree, lived out the winter there,
wore on; --Ahab now shut up within his cabin; anon, pacing the deck, with the
world seems formed in love, the invisible spheres were formed in fright.  But
world's a ball, as you scholars have it; and so 'tis right to make one
world; were the logs for one voyage of the entire whale fleet carefully
would be hard to say.  It does not seemed to be used like the blade of the
would not be here, and at once, perfected.  You cannot but plainly see that I
would seem the very man to dart his iron and lift his lance against the most
would seem, was popularly supposed to be derived from a creature identical
wrinkled brow, till it almost seemed that while he himself was marking out
yard!  It's worse than being in the whirled woods, the last day of the year;
ye then at the fiery hunt?
ye!  d'ye see this Spanish ounce of gold? --holding up a broad bright coin to
ye, that heard the hum of the old Quakeress's knitting-needles fifty miles at
ye, whosoever of ye raises me that same white whale, he shall have this gold
ye, ye young exiled royalties; and from your grim sire only will the old
yet Ahab's larger, darker, deeper part remains unhinted.  But vain to
yet given that a hidden hero is there; for where there is smoke, must be
yet they also have the privilege of lounging in the rear.  If Stubb even, who
yonder, boys, there's another in the sky --lurid-like, ye see, all else pitch
you cannot successfully shoot at them from
you dance?  Form, now, Indian-file, and gallop into the double-shuffle?
you may carry your house aloft with you, in the shape of a watch-coat; but
you will yet see that-- Ha!  boy, come back?  bad pennies come not sooner.
you, ye ship-owners of Nantucket!  Beware of enlisting in your vigilant
young Platonists have a notion that their vision is imperfect; they are
your boats, my boys, And by your braces stand, And we'll have one of those
your cotton bags!  I have no long gun to reach ye.  Come, Ahab's compliments
your legs, as it were, swim the hugest monsters of the sea, even as ships
your white squalls, they.  White squalls?  white whale, shirr!
