








































     ( enter Ahab: Then, all.) It
     And what do ye next, men?  Lower away, and after him!  And what tune is
     Aye, Starbuck; aye, my hearties all round; it was Moby Dick that dismasted
     But ere stepping into the cabin doorway below, he pauses, ships a new face
     Charley profanely hinted they were humbug.  Be it known that, waiving all
     Concerning the officers of the
     Dinner, Mr. Starbuck, disappears into the cabin.  When the last echo of his
     Good!  cried Ahab, with a wild approval in his tones; observing the hearty
     Imperial Electors, so these cabin meals were somehow solemn meals, eaten in
     It is chiefly with his name that I now have to do.  Philologically considered,
     It is noon; and Dough-Boy, the
     It was during the more pleasant weather,
     Narwhale; IV., the Thrasher; V., the Killer.  BOOK II. ( Octavo), CHAPTER
     OCTAVOES.  These embrace the whales of middling magnitude, among which at
     Of modern standers-of-mast-heads we have but a lifeless set; mere stone,
     Of these so called Whalebone whales, there would seem to be several
     Razor Back Whale; VI.  the Sulphur Bottom Whale.  BOOK I. ( Folio),
     Suddenly he came to a halt by the bulwarks, and inserting his bone leg into
     The Huzza Porpoise.  II.  The Algerine Porpoise.  III.  The Mealy-mouthed
     Vengeance on a dumb brute!  cried Starbuck, that simply smote thee from
     Whale; III.  the Fin Back Whale; IV.  the Hump-backed Whale; V. the
     and tightly, almost convulsively grasping it, addressed them thus: -- All ye
     are accounted a lucky omen.  If you yourself can withstand three cheers at
     book i. ( folio), chapter iv. ( hump back). --this whale is often seen on
     chase the white whale?  art not game for Moby Dick?  I am game for his
     copestone to posterity.  God keep me from ever completing anything.  This
     could almost see that thought turn in him as he turned, and pace in him as he
     druggists as you nowadays buy an ounce of rhubarb.  When, as I opine, in the
     hay, and especially as they do not spout, I deny their credentials as
     is famous for his tail, which he uses for a ferule in thrashing his foes.  He
     mostly float.  For one, I used to lounge up the rigging very leisurely,
     nor, on the other hand, link with it any fish hitherto authoritatively
     not sufficiently distinguish him, since the sperm whale also has a hump,
     requirest a little lower layer.  If money's to be the measurer, man, and the
     shoals and what rocks must be shunned.  It may seem unwarrantable to couple in
     that my vengeance will fetch a great premium here!  He smites his chest,
     the chick that's in him pecks the shell.  T'will soon be out.  The hours
     them.  I call them thus, because he always swims in hilarious shoals, which
     to send everybody aft.  Sir!  said the mate, astonished at an order seldom or
     whale oil, an inferior article in commerce.  Among the fishermen, he is
     when every foremast-hand has clutched a whetstone?  Ah!  constrainings seize
( Duodecimo), CHAPTER I ( Huzza Porpoise). -- This is the common porpoise
( Mealy-mouthed Porpoise).  The largest kind of Porpoise; and only found in
( Octavo), CHAPTER II. ( Black Fish). --I give the popular fishermen's names
( Right Whale).--In one respect this is the most venerable of the
(ere the final truck was put to it) as that great stone mast of theirs may be
(subdivisible into Chapters), and these shall comprehend them all, both small
--Another instance of a curiously named whale, so named I suppose from his
--Under this head I reckon a monster which, by the various names of
--however that may be --it would certainly be very convenient to him for a
.. < chapter xxxiii 24  THE SPECKSYNDER >
.. < chapter xxxiv 15  THE CABIN-TABLE >
.. < chapter xxxv 2  THE MAST-HEAD >
.. < chapter xxxvi 21  THE QUARTER-DECK >
.. <p 132 >
.. <p 132n. >
.. <p 133 >
.. <p 134 >
.. <p 135 >
.. <p 136 >
.. <p 137 >
.. <p 137n. >
.. <p 138 >
.. <p 139 >
.. <p 140 >
.. <p 141 >
.. <p 142 >
.. <p 142 >
.. <p 143 >
.. <p 144 >
.. <p 145 >
.. <p 145 >
.. <p 146 >
.. <p 147 >
.. <p 148 >
.. <p 149 >
.. <p 150 >
.. <p 151 >
.. <p 152 >
.. <p 153 >
.. <p 154 >
.. <p 155 >
.. <p 156 >
.. <p 157 >
.. <p 157 >
.. <p 158 >
.. <p 159 >
.. <p 160 >
.. <p 161 >
.. <p 162 >
.. <p 163 >
Above, Linnaeus has given you those items.  But in brief, they are these:
According to magnitude I divide the whales into three primary BOOKS
Admiral Nelson, also, on a capstan of gun-metal, stands his mast-head in
Ahab thereby motioned Starbuck's plate towards him, the mate received his
BOOK I. ( Folio), CHAPTER VI. ( Sulphur Bottom). -- Another retiring
BOOK II. ( Octavo), CHAPTER III. ( Narwhale), that is, Nostril whale.
BOOK III. ( Duodecimo).  DUODECIMOES. --These include the smaller whales.  I.
Babylon; and to have been Belshazzar, not haughtily but courteously,
Belshazzar's, for Belshazzar was not the greatest.  Who has but once dined
Blanc, or Louis the Devil.  Great Washington, too, stands high aloft on his
But you cannot prove either of these surmises to be correct.  My own opinion
CHAPTER I. ( Sperm Whale). --This whale, among the English of old vaguely
Captain Ahab?  And he have one, two, tree --oh!  good many iron in him hide,
Cetology than any other detached bodily distinctions, which the whale, in his
Cetology.
Coast, and various other parts of the world, designated by them Right Whale
Coffin said it was used for an ice-piercer; for the Narwhale, rising to the
Coffin, of Nantucket, both messmates of mine in a certain voyage, and they
Commonly, after seeing the harpooneers furnished with all things they
Cruising Grounds.  Some pretend to see a difference between the Greenland
Daggoo seated on the floor, for a bench would have brought his hearse-plumed
Daggoo, and Queequeg had looked on with even more intense interest and
Dick that took off thy leg?  Who told thee that?  cried Ahab; then pausing,
Dick ye have seen --Moby Dick-- Moby Dick!  Captain Ahab, said Starbuck, who,
Dough-Boy almost looked to see whether any marks of teeth lurked in his own
Dough-Boy's memory by snatching him up bodily, and thrusting his head into a
Dugongs (Pig-fish and Sow-fish of the Coffins of Nantucket) are included by
Duodecimoes are infallibly whales, by the terms of my definition of what a
Egyptians were a nation of mast-head standers, is an assertion based upon the
Fat-Cutter; usage, however, in time made it equivalent to Chief Harpooneer.
Feegee fish.  He sometimes takes the great Folio whales by the lip, and hangs
Fin-Back, Tall-Spout, and Long-John, has been seen almost in every sea and is
Flask, have for ever departed from my stomach.  I am an officer; but, how I
For with little external to constrain us, the innermost necessities in our
Fourth-of-July crowd.  Their appearance is generally hailed with delight by
Greenland Whale which the first syllable of the word literally expresses.  In
Greenland Whale; the Black Whale; the Great Whale; the True Whale; the Right
Greenland-men were; yet that disadvantage is greatly counterbalanced by the
He lived in the world, as the last of the Grisly Bears lived in settled
His oil is much like that of the common porpoise.  Beyond the DUODECIMO, this
However contracted, that definition is the result of expanded meditation.  A
I am aware that down to the present time, the fish styled Lamatins and
I might find there; then ascending a little way further, and throwing a lazy
I take it very ill of him that he should so utterly ignore that case-bottle,
I. ( Grampus). --Though this fish, whose loud sonorous breathing, or rather
In shape, he differs in some degree from the Huzza Porpoise, being of a less
In this one matter, Ahab seemed no exception to most American whale captains,
In those days, the captain's authority was restricted to the navigation and
Island days, Queequeg, for one, must certainly have been guilty of some
Let it go.  Look!  see yonder Turkish cheeks of spotted tawn -- living,
Macy, the sole historian of Nantucket, stands accountable.  The worthy Obed
Martin Frobisher on his return from that voyage, when Queen Bess did
Missouri.  And as when Spring and Summer had departed, that wild Logan of the
Nantucket market.  Nantucket market!  Hoot!  But come closer, Starbuck; thou
Nantucket wool after the great annual sheep-shearing; aye, Tashtego, and he
Nantucketer.  Thus ends BOOK I. ( Folio), and now begins BOOK II. ( octavo).
Nay; what thing, for example, is there in the Greenland whale's anatomy more
Next: how shall we define the whale, by his obvious externals, so as
Nor, will the tragic dramatist who would depict mortal indomitableness in its
Now, then, come the grand divisions of the entire whale host.  First:
OCTAVO, the Grampus; of the DUODECIMO, the Porpoise.  FOLIOS.  Among these I
Ordinaire of the French whalemen; the Growlands Walfish of the Swedes.  It is
Over his ivory-inlaid table, Ahab presided like a mute, maned sea-lion on the
Porpoise.  To those who have not chanced specially to study the subject, it
Provoke him, and he will buckle to a shark.  I have lowered for him many
Queequeg, the harpoons lie all twisted and wrenched in him; aye, Daggoo, his
Receiving the brimming pewter, and turning to the harpooneers, he ordered
Receiving the top-maul from Starbuck, he advanced towards the main-mast with
Sailors put it on their hones.  Porpoise meat is good eating, you know.  It
Sharks included.  BOOK II. ( Octavo), CHAPTER V. ( Thrasher). --This gentleman
Southern whale-fishers are not so snugly housed aloft as Captain Sleet and his
Starbuck, lowly.  But in his joy at the enchanted, tacit acquiescence of the
Strength, Cash, and Patience!
Stylites, the famous Christian hermit of old times, who built him a lofty
Sulphur Bottom!  I can say nothing more that is true of ye, nor can the oldest
Tartarian tiles in some of his profounder divings.  He is seldom seen; at
Tashtego had an ungentlemanly way of accelerating him by darting a fork at his
Tashtego, opposing his filed teeth to the Indian's: crosswise to them,
That inscrutable thing is chiefly what I hate; and be the white whale agent,
There you stand, a hundred feet above the silent decks, striding along the
Though the long period of a Southern whaling voyage (by far the longest of
Trafalgar Square; and ever when most obscured by that London smoke, token is
Vendome, stands with arms folded, some one hundred and fifty feet in the air;
Voyage among the Icebergs, in quest of the Greenland Whale, and incidentally
WHALE.  As the type of the FOLIO I present the Sperm Whale; of the
Whale; the Cape Whale; the Leading Whale; the Cannon Whale; the Scragg Whale;
Whereas, among spouting fish the tail, though it may be similarly shaped,
Why this book of whales is not denominated the Quarto is very plain.  Because,
a chance, watch him; and you will then see the great Sperm whale himself in
a fin; no wondrous feat for Starbuck.  What is it more?  From this one poor
a high raised voice exclaiming: Whosoever of ye raises me a white-headed
a permanent thing, residing in the open air.  Nor did they lose much hereby;
a poor old whale-hunter like him; and, therefore, all outward majestical
a rapid Dinner, Mr. Flask, follows after his predecessors.  But the third
a very different thing.  Now, it was plainly a labor of love for Captain Sleet
a whale, men?  Sing out for him!  was the impulsive rejoinder from a score
abridged.  At present he ranks simply as senior Harpooneer; and as such, is
accidentally obtained from the stranded fish; in those days spermaceti, it
accountants have computed their great counting-house the globe, by girdling
act, the undoubted deed --there, some unknown but still reasoning thing puts
adjoining, and fearfully peep out at them through the blinds of its door,
aft, repeated Ahab.  Mast-heads, there!  come down!  When the entire ship's
after a three, four, or five years' voyage she is drawing nigh home with
after breakfast, Ahab, as was his wont, ascended the cabin-gangway to the
after ourselves any other apparatus we may beget.  In shape, the Sleet's
after part of the ship.  That is to say, they take their meals in the
against holy usage for Stubb to precede Flask to the deck.  Therefore it was
ago this same plan was adopted by the Bay whalemen of New Zealand, who, upon
agree in all their grand features; nor has there yet been presented a single
all that,
all the wonder.  Captain Ahab, I have heard of Moby Dick--but it was not Moby
all voyages now or ever made by man), the peculiar perils of it, and the
allusions to some kind of whales, yet it is in vain to attempt a clear
almost all whales.  So, call him the Hyena Whale, if you please.  His voracity
altogether, and, then, independent, hilarious little Flask enters King Ahab's
always at too great a distance to study his countenance.  He is never chased;
always conveys an idea of hugeness.  But the creatures set down above as
among the men; till Stubb cautiously whispered to Flask, that Ahab must have
among the strange things bred by the intense artificialness of sea-usages,
amphibious.  but the last term of the definition is still more cogent, as
anatomy --there, at least, we shall be able to hit the right classification.
and English in the Arctic seas; it is the whale which the American fishermen
and Flask is the first man up.  Consider!  For hereby Flask's dinner was badly
and all its concerns, the Specksynder or Chief Harpooneer reigned supreme.  In
and blubber.  Childe Harold not unfrequently perches himself upon the
and dented brow; there also, you would see still stranger foot-prints --the
and fiercely glad and approving, grew the countenance of the old man at every
and finding it sheeted with ice, thrusts his horn up, and so breaks through.
and horizontal tailed fish must be included in this ground-plan of Cetology.
and large.  I. The FOLIO WHALE; II.  the OCTAVO WHALE;  III.  the DUODECIMO
and merchantmen alike, the mates have their quarters with the captain; and
and more ago, the command of a whale ship was
and nameless invisible domineerings of the captain's table, was the entire
and round the horn, and round the norway maelstrom, and round perdition's
and so at last mount to my ultimate destination.  Let me make a clean breast
and space; like Cranmer's sprinkled Pantheistic ashes, forming at last a
and superb a person.  But, doubtless, this noble savage fed strong and drank
and swallowed it, not without circumspection.  For, like the Coronation
animation into which his unexpected question had so magnetically thrown them.
announces dinner to his lord and master; who, sitting in the lee
any mere sailor of the Pequod had a grudge against Flask in Flask's official
any respect the mast-head standers of the land with those of the sea; but
any strange sight.  There is Napoleon; who, upon the top of the column of
any time, permitted there.  So that, in real truth, the mates and harpooneers
anything empty in her --say, an empty vial even --then, her mast-heads are kept
appetites had Queequeg and Tashtego, that to fill out the vacancies made by
are curved upwards, he carries an everlasting Mephistophelean grin on his
are more than one sort of porpoises, and something must be done to distinguish
are so hopelessly lost to all honorable ambition, as that in their secret
are still entirely incompetent to the business of singing out upon discovering
are these monitions at all unneeded.  For nowadays, the whale-fishery
argument, I take the good old fashioned ground that the whale is a fish, and
article commonly known as whalebone or baleen; and the oil specially known as
as cosy as he would standing on a bull's horns.  To be sure, in cold weather
as if to heighten its lustre, and without using any words was meanwhile lowly
as it is a mere envelope, or additional skin encasing you.  You cannot put a
ascend into it through a little trap-hatch in the bottom.  On the after side,
astronomical purposes: a theory singularly supported by the peculiar
at all tend to tranquillize poor Dough-Boy.  How could he forget that in his
at all; and your identity comes back in horror.  Over Descartian vortices you
at sea.  The three mast-heads are kept manned from sun-rise to sun-set; the
at such a thought-engendering altitude, --how could I but lightly hold my
away; the winds blew on; the sails filled out; the ship heaved and rolled as
awful silence; and yet at table old Ahab forbade not conversation; only he
awhile, and then slightly shaking the main brace, to see whether it be all
back, harpoonwise.  And once Daggoo, seized with a sudden humor, assisted
bankrupt baker and a hospital nurse.  And what with the standing spectacle of
banquet at Frankfort, where the German Emperor profoundly dines with the seven
baron of salt-junk, seemingly quarried out of the solid ox.  And if he were
basis.  On this rock every one of the whale-naturalists has split.  But it
be finished by their first architects; grand ones, true ones, ever leave the
be visible, this isolated fin will, at times, be seen plainly projecting from
beaked whales; pike-headed whales; bunched whales; under-jawed whales and
bear themselves boldly and defyingly enough towards their commander; yet,
bearing for his mark that style upon his back.  From having the baleen in his
beautiful thing that eludes him; every dimly-discovered, uprising fin of some
because, in all my researches, I find none prior to them.  For though their
before me in all his Nantucket grimness and shagginess; and in this episode
before.  Ah, ye admonitions and warnings!  why stay ye not when ye come?  But
beholding these vivacious fish, then heaven help ye; the spirit of godly
being the original inventors and patentees), so likewise should we denominate
being, these still drive us on.  The measure!  the measure!  cried Ahab.
belongs to them; and that it is by courtesy alone that anybody else is, at
between him and an officer called the Specksynder.  Literally this word means
billows to windward.  They are the lads that always live before the wind.  They
bilocular heart, their lungs, their movable eyelids, their hollow ears, penem
blindest instinct!  Madness!  To be enraged with a dumb thing, Captain Ahab,
blowing, has furnished a proverb to landsmen, is so well known a denizen of
blubber-hunters sweep over thee in vain.  Very often do the captains of such
breathing pictures painted by the sun.  The Pagan leopards --the unrecking and
burn unsavory tallow instead of odorous wax.  Though their blubber is very
but a buckler.  in good time, though, to his great delight, the three
but a lengthened tusk, growing out from the jaw in a line a little depressed
but noiseless squall of a hornpipe right over the Grand Turk's head; and
but one of the captain's more inferior subalterns.  Nevertheless, as upon the
but there again the similitude ceases.  And it is just the same with the other
but valiantly facing everything out to the last, literally died at his post.
by no means unobservant of the paramount forms and usages of the sea.  Nor,
call upon holy Jonah to back me.  This fundamental thing settled, the next
capacity, all that sailor had to do, in order to obtain ample vengeance, was
captain's cabin, and sleep in a place indirectly communicating with it.
care-free license and ease, the almost frantic democracy of those inferior
careless, now, who rules the decks below; whether Louis Philippe, Louis
charmingly circumstantial account of the then recently invented crow's-nest
chase that white whale on both sides of land, and over all sides of earth,
children before Ahab; and yet, in Ahab, there seemed not to lurk the smallest
circumpolar seas.  BOOK II. ( Octavo), CHAPTER IV. ( Killer). --Of this whale
classification of the Leviathan, founded upon either his baleen, or hump, or
cloth was cleared, or rather was restored to some hurried order by the pallid
color, approaching to olive.  His great lips present a cable-like aspect,
column marks that point of human grandeur beyond which few mortals will go.
combinations; or, in the case of any one of them detached, such an irregular
coming up, Ahab, after rapidly glancing over the bulwarks, and then darting
commander's vengeance.  How many barrels will thy vengeance yield thee even
commonly the whale whose distant jet is so often descried by passengers
community of interest prevailing among a company, all of whom, high or low,
company were assembled, and with curious and not wholly unapprehensive faces,
complete inattention to the tidings, you would think that moody Ahab had not
complexion; or whether he deemed that, on so long a voyage in such marketless
considerable
considerable a portion of the whole term of your natural life, should be so
conspicuous object.  this fin is some three or four feet long, growing
conspicuously to label him for all time to come?  To be short, then, a whale
contemptible set, mostly lurking in the mouths of rivers, and feeding on wet
conveniences.  When Captain Sleet in person stood his mast-head in this crow's
convenient closet of your watch-coat.  Concerning all this, it is much to be
coupled with the first.  Almost any one must have noticed that all the fish
course of time, the true nature of spermaceti became
creature hitherto identified with the whale by the best informed Nantucketers;
crooked jaw, and for the jaws of Death too, Captain Ahab, if it fairly comes
crossing the Atlantic, in the New York
crossing the snowy Alps in winter); so a watch-coat is not so much of a house
crow's-nest is something like a large tierce or pipe; it is open above,
crow's-nest; but though he so enlarges upon many of these, and though he
czarship which there is no withstanding.  Now, if to this consideration you
deck.  There most sea-captains usually walk at that hour, as country
deep of the abounding element of air; and through his dilated nostrils
deep sable, yet a boundary line, distinct as the mark in a ship's hull, called
deep, as if the masts were gigantic stilts, while beneath you and between
degree remained unmanifested; through those forms that same sultanism became
demanded, he would escape from their clutches into his little pantry
departments of natural history become so repellingly intricate.  The right
depend for their profits, not upon fixed wages, but upon their common luck,
depends, and since in the American Fishery he is not only an important
deplored that the mast-heads of a southern whale ship are unprovided with
descrying the game, gave notice to the ready-manned boats nigh the beach.  But
determinate fact upon which to ground a radical distinction.  It is by endless
deviations, azimuth compass observations, and approximate errors, he
did flask presume to help himself to butter.  Whether he thought the owners of
did not last long.  Vehemently pausing, he cried: -- What do ye do when ye see
difference?  A problem?  Perhaps not.  To have been Belshazzar, King of
dignity of an officer, from that moment he had never known what it was to be
dinner in that same commander's cabin, and straightway their inoffensive, not
dinner-table of invited guests, that man's unchallenged power and dominion of
distilled to a volatile salts for fainting ladies, the same way that the
distinctions a fiftieth part as available to the systematizer as those
distinguishing feature, the fin, from which he derives his name, is often a
ears, all their martial bones jingling in them at every step, like Moorish
ejaculates: -- Roll on, thou deep and dark blue ocean, roll!  Ten thousand
elucidating the sperm whale.  BOOK I. ( Folio), CHAPTER III. ( Fin-Back).
emir, now seeing himself all alone on the quarter-deck, seems to feel
employs it for a rake in turning over the bottom of the sea for food.  Charley
encircles an imperial brain;
enhance its value by a notion so strangely significant of its scarcity.  And
entrenchments, always, in themselves, more or less paltry and base.  This it
errors resulting from what is called the local attraction of all binnacle
escaped from a felonious visit to a meal-bag.  A most mean and mealy aspect!
events hereafter to be detailed, he addressed them in unusual terms, whether
every two hours.  In the serene weather of the tropics it is exceedingly
everything resolves you into languor.  For the most part, in this tropic
evinced by the fact, that originally in the old Dutch Fishery, two centuries
example of the Unicornism to be found in almost every kingdom of animated
exceed ten, and even attain to fifteen feet.  Strictly speaking, this horn is
except that rocking life imparted by a gently rolling ship; by her, borrowed
external ones already enumerated.  What then remains?  nothing but to take hold
eye open, and sing out every time.  And let me in this place movingly admonish
eyes lighted up with the stubbornness of life; the subterranean laugh died
face.  This whale averages some sixteen or eighteen feet in length.  He is
familiar to landsmen have not a flat, but a vertical, or up-and-down tail.
family these whalemen may, in some primitive instances, live together; for
fan-tails like a split jib in a squall.  Death and devils!  men, it is Moby
featured in the unbodied air!
feet should be marshalled among WHALES --a word, which, in the popular sense,
fellows the harpooneers.  While their masters, the mates, seemed afraid of the
few turns along the planks, and, after a grave peep into the binnacle, says,
figure.  He has no fins on his back (most other porpoises have), he has a
filled their bellies like Indian ships all day loading with spices.  Such
fin, or teeth; notwithstanding that those marked parts or features very
fire.  But neither great Washington, nor Napoleon, nor Nelson, will answer a
fisheries any lad with lean brow and hollow eye; given to unseasonable
flames before I give him up.  And this is what ye have shipped for, men!  to
flogging him; as some schoolmasters get along in the world by a similar
folder in reading pamphlets.  The Narwhale I have heard called the Tusked
foot-prints of his one unsleeping, ever-pacing thought.  But on the occasion in
for all these fish, for generally they are the best.  Where any name happens
for the White Whale; a sharp lance for Moby Dick!  God bless ye, he seemed
for the re-discovery of the Lost Icelandic Colonies of Old Greenland; in
for the world they would have profaned that moment with the slightest
for their lances and other weapons; and with which whetstones, at dinner,
formed by the intertwisting, slanting folds of large wrinkles.  His grand
forth the mouldings of its features from behind the unreasoning mask.  If man
found almost all over the globe.  The name is of my own bestowal; for there
found in almost all latitudes.  He has a peculiar way of showing his dorsal
from the circumstance that he is chiefly found in the vicinity of that Folio.
from the hold; nor yet the presaging vibrations of
from the horizontal.  But it is only found on the sinister side, which has an
from the men before the mast, and be in some way distinguished as their
from the sea; by the sea, from the inscrutable tides of God.  But while this
frugal housekeepers, in the absence of company, and quite alone by themselves,
fullest sweep and direct swing, ever forget a hint, incidentally so important
furnishes an asylum for many romantic, melancholy, and absent-minded young
future investigators, who may complete what I have here but begun.  If any of
gallant cross-trees.  Here, tossed about by the sea, the beginner feels about
gallantly wave her jewelled hand to him from a window of Greenwich Palace, as
gamesomeness is not in ye.  A well-fed, plump Huzza Porpoise will yield you
general belief among archaeologists, that the first pyramids were founded for
general management of the vessel: while over the whale-hunting department
gentleman, with a brimstone belly, doubtless got by scraping along the
gentlemen, after the same meal, take a few turns in the garden.  Soon his
geological stones, with the peculiar mark of his walk.  Did you fixedly gaze,
giants made or nourished.  But Queequeg, he had a mortal, barbaric smack of
gloom!
goes down?  said the Gay-Header deliberately.  And has he a curious spout,
good conduct of the harpooneers the success of a whaling voyage largely
grand political maxim of the sea demands, that he should nominally live apart
grandeur not surpassed in any military navy; nay, extorting almost as much
graved on it.  On that Ahaz-dial the shadow often goes back.  The Fin-Back is
great empty wooden trencher, while Tashtego, knife in hand, began laying out
greatly admire and even love the brave, the honest, and learned Captain; yet
grounds upon which Linnaeus would fain have banished
half-slouched hat he continued to pace, unmindful of the wondering whispering
half-throttled shriek you drop through that transparent air into the summer
hammock, a hearse, a sentry box, a pulpit, a coach, or any other of those
hand me yon top-maul.  While the mate was getting the hammer, Ahab, without
handful of the Divine Inert, than through their undoubted superiority over
hardly help suspecting them for mere sounds, full of Leviathanism, but
harpooneers and seamen, running closer to the excited old man: A sharp eye
have kept my word.  But I now leave my cetological System standing thus
have long pursued in the Indian ocean, on the Brazil Banks, on the Nor' West
he being the only creature from which that valuable substance, spermaceti, is
he ever exacted, was implicit, instantaneous obedience; though he required no
he has never yet shown any part of him but his back, which rises in a long
he shouted with a terrific, loud, animal sob, like that of a heart-stricken
he would run away with rope-walks of line.  Prodigies are told of him.  Adieu,
head to the low carlines; at every motion of his colossal limbs, making the
head, and the whole of his mouth, which makes him look as if he had just
heard his menial.  But presently, catching hold of the mizen shrouds, he
here include the following chapters: -- I. The Sperm Whale; II.  the Right
here.  Perhaps they were; or perhaps there might have been shoals of them in
high and mighty cabin.  In strange contrast to the hardly tolerable constraint
him the Elephant and Castle whale.  At any rate, the popular name for him does
him we have a remarkable instance of a dauntless stander-of-mast-heads; who
him--him-- faltering hard for a word, and screwing his hand round and round as
himself was dumb.  What a relief it was to choking Stubb, when a rat made a
himself,
himself, he will not get more than three mouthfuls that day; for it is
himself, the chances were Ahab had never so much as noticed it.  Least of all,
his bold ship sailed down the Thames; when Sir Martin returned from that
his crow's nest, within easy reach of his hand.  Though, upon the whole, I
his eyes among the crew, started from his standpoint; and as though not a
his friends, has tasted what it is to be Caesar.  It is a witchery of social
his hunger, as keep it immortal in him.  Peace and satisfaction, thought
his jaws is exceedingly valuable.  It is in request among jewellers and
his life on its summit, hoisting his food from the ground with a tackle; in
his own proper turn, each officer waited to be served.  They were as little
hitherto been designated, is that of the fishers -- Right-Whale Porpoise,
holding that if we call our own children after our own names (we fathers
hooked fin in swimming, which looks something like a Roman nose.  When not
horns of the male deer are manufactured into hartshorn.  Originally it was in
house; turning inwards for a moment, only to be turned out the next; and, as
hover.  And perhaps, at mid-day, in the fairest weather, with one
however it was, Flask, alas!  was a butterless man!  Another thing.  Flask was
however, where it is furnished with a movable side-screen to keep to windward
humming to himself, producing a sound so strangely muffled and inarticulate
humpbacked whale, each has a hump; but there the similitude ceases.  Then,
hunt, then, the best lance out of all Nantucket, surely he will not hang back,
hustings; and leaves the highest honors that this air can give, to those men
if thou gettest it, Captain Ahab?  it will not fetch thee much in our
ill effect, giving its owner something analogous to the aspect of a clumsy
impossible correctly to classify the Greenland whale.  And if you descend
imprecations he shouted out: Aye, aye!  and I'll chase him round Good Hope,
in all sorts of directions, and kicking off his shoes, he strikes into a sharp
in his art, as the one now alluded to.  But Ahab, my Captain, still moves
in his head.  Beware of such an one, I say; your whales must be seen before
in it.  For when they did enter it, it was something as a street-door enters a
in quantity, and pretty good for light.  By some fishermen his approach is
in that bird's nest within three or four perches of the pole.  But if we
in the cabin was no companionship; socially, Ahab was inaccessible.  Though
in the case of Nicholas the Czar, the ringed crown of geographical empire
in the first degree.  Had he helped himself at that table, doubtless, never
in the rightly regal and intelligent spirit presides over his own private
in the way of the business we follow; but I came here to hunt whales, not my
in this matter of the whale?  See Stubb!  he laughs!  See yonder Chilian!  he
in which to keep your speaking trumpet, pipe, telescope, and other nautical
in which you will see the skipper parading his quarter-deck with an elated
incarnate in an irresistible dictatorship.  For be a man's intellectual
incorporated into this System, according to his Folio, Octavo, or Duodecimo
indiscriminately designated by all the following titles: The Whale; the
indistinctness.  For we are all killers, on land and on sea; Bonapartes and
individual influence for the time; that man's royalty of state transcends
inhabitant of the globe; the most formidable of all whales to encounter; the
instances even to idiot imbecility they have imparted potency.  But when, as
intended to rear the loftiest mast-head in all Asia, or Africa either; yet
into harbor.  He has a great pack on him like a peddler; or you might call
into the bowels of the various leviathans, why there you will not find
into unnecessary excitements; you hear of no domestic afflictions; bankrupt
intrantem feminam mammis lactantem, and finally, ex lege naturae jure
invariably assumes a horizontal position.  By the above definition of what a
inventor and patentee, and free from all ridiculous false delicacy, and
inward mould of every outer movement.  D'ye mark him, Flask?  whispered Stubb;
iron, and bronze men; who, though well capable of facing out a stiff gale,
is a spouting fish with a horizontal tail.  There you have him.
is but a peg higher than Flask, happens to have but a small appetite, and
is even that fair play.  Who's over me?  Truth hath no confines.  Take off
is little of it, and he is seldom hunted.  He is mostly found in the
is never hunted.  I never heard what sort of oil he has.  Exception
is the present Cachalot of the French, and the Pottsfich of the Germans, and
is very discreet and scientific here, yet, for all his learned binnacle
is well known, and from the circumstance that the inner angles of his lips
is, that for ever keeps God's true princes of the Empire from the world's
is, that however this one-sided horn may really be used by the Narwhale
isolation; as utterly to defy all general methodization formed upon such a
it is absurd.  Some centuries ago, when the Sperm whale was almost wholly
it must needs be plucked at from the skies, and dived for in the deep, and
it the Sleet's crow's-nest, in honor of himself; he being the original
it with guineas, one to every three parts of an inch; then, let me tell thee,
it ye pull to, men?  A dead whale or a stove boat!  More and more strangely
its residuary legatees.  They made a sort of temporary servants' hall of the
itself accounted an object of great curiosity.  Black Letter tells me that Sir
jammed in point of time.  Starbuck and Stubb both had the start of him; and
jaw they had started as if each was separately touched by some specific
kinds, presents.  How then?  The baleen, hump, back-fin, and teeth; these are
known as the Trumpa whale, and the Physeter whale, and the Anvil Headed whale,
known but his name.  I have seen him at a distance off Cape Horn.  Of a
known, its original name was still retained by the dealers; no doubt to
knows very well, Captain Sleet, that he was not so much immersed in those
lean arms.  And when he would hear Tashtego singing out for him to produce
least I have never seen him except in the remoter southern seas, and then
least given to that sort of shallowest assumption; and though the only homage
left a deeper mark.  And, so full of his thought was Ahab, that at every
left-handed man.  What precise purpose this ivory horn or lance answers, it
leg over the top-sail yard, take a preliminary view of the watery pastures,
leopard-like look, being of a milk-white ground color, dotted with round and
leviathans, being the one first regularly hunted by man.  It yields the
life they feel!  The crew, man, the crew!  Are they not one and all with Ahab,
light, but only as an ointment and medicament.  It was only to be had from the
like a tall misanthropic spear upon a barren plain; gifted with such
little is precisely known to the Nantucketer, and nothing at all to the
lofty spars along the sea-coast, to which the look-outs ascended by means of
look ye, Starbuck, what is said in heat, that thing unsays itself.  There are
lookouts of a Greenland whaler are protected from the inclement weather of
lovely tail, and sentimental Indian eyes of a hazel hue.  But his
low cabin framework to shake, as when an African elephant goes passenger in a
lubber of me for ever and a day!  Then tossing both arms, with measureless
lungs and warm blood; whereas, all other fish are lungless and cold blooded.
magnets; an error ascribable to the horizontal vicinity of the iron in the
magnitude: --The Bottle-Nose Whale; the Junk Whale; the Pudding-Headed
man to remove the shoes from his feet ere stepping upon the quarter-deck; and
man's knife, as he carved the chief dish before him.  I do not suppose that
man; this leviathan seems the banished and unconquerable Cain of his race,
manned to the last; and not till her skysail-poles sail in among the spires
manner of uncouth names.  But I omit them as altogether obsolete; and can
many broken-down blacksmiths among her crew; I say, that though the Captain
many naturalists among the whales.  But as these pig-fish are a nosy,
marvelling how it was that they themselves became so excited at such
mast-head of some luckless disappointed whale-ship, and in moody phrase
mast-headers have before now heard me give orders about a white whale.  Look
masts, as for a moment their hearts sank in.  For again Starbuck's downcast
mate, Ahab did not hear his foreboding invocation; nor yet the low laugh
mates formed what may be called the first table in the Pequod's cabin.  After
may never have occurred to you that a porpoise spouts.  Indeed, his spout is
may possibly be conceived that, in the internal parts of the whale, in his
may possibly seem strange, that fishes not commonly exceeding four or five
me; Moby Dick that brought me to this dead stump I stand on now.  Aye, aye,
mealy-mouth spoils all.  Though his entire back down to his side fins is of a
measure of grog.  But what's this long face about, Mr. Starbuck; wilt thou not
meat as though receiving alms; and cut it tenderly; and a little started if,
meditativeness; and who offers to ship with the phaedon instead of Bowditch
men from whom warm words are small indignity.  I meant not to incense thee.
men, disgusted with the carking cares of earth, and seeking sentiment in tar
mention, that however such a nomenclature may be convenient in facilitating
merchantmen generally; yet, never mind how much like an old Mesopotamian
meritoque.  I submitted all this to my friends Simeon Macey and Charley
might be taken to the name bestowed upon this whale, on the ground of its
miles, and more, to sail ere reaching her proper cruising ground.  and if,
miniature.  BOOK III. ( Duodecimo), CHAPTER II. ( Algerine Porpoise). -- A
mittened fingers and hooded head he was studying the mathematics aloft there
modern ship sing out for a sail, or a whale just bearing in sight.  In Saint
months.  And it is much to be deplored that the place to which you devote so
mood, thy spirit ebbs away to whence it came; becomes diffused through time
moose; Aye, aye!  it was that accursed white whale that razeed me; made a
more profitably employed, the sperm whale hunters sometimes capture the Hyena
more would he have been able to hold his head up in this honest world;
more.  Now, as the business of standing mast-heads, ashore or afloat, is a
most American whalemen the mast-heads are manned almost simultaneously with
most majestic in aspect; and lastly, by far the most valuable in commerce;
most usual point of perch is the head of the t' gallant-mast, where you stand
mount to the apex, and sing out for new stars; even as the look-outs of a
mounts the Folio whale's back, and as he swims, he works his passage by
mouth, the Fin-Back is sometimes included with the right whale, among a
mouthfuls he could keep up the vitality diffused through so broad, baronial,
murderous, convivial indiscretions.  Alas!  Dough-Boy!  hard fares the white
mutely reckoning the latitude on the smooth, medallion-shaped tablet,
nailed cleats, something as fowls go upstairs in a hen-house.  A few years
naturalists; the Greenland Whale of the English Whalemen; the Baliene
nature.  From certain cloistered old authors I have gathered that this same
nest of his, he tells us that he always had a rifle with him (also fixed in
never given on ship-board except in some extraordinary case.  Send everybody
nevertheless, strange to say, Ahab never forbade him.  And had Flask helped
no gazettes; extras with startling accounts of commonplaces never delude you
nominally included in the census of Christendom, he was still an alien to it.
nominally lived there; still, being anything but sedentary in their habits,
nostrils, he has inhaled it in his lungs.  Starbuck now is mine; cannot
not gregarious.  He seems a whale-hater, as some men are man-haters.  Very
not lively about it, if he did not go with a nimble hop-skip-and-jump, then
not wholly lodged in the person now called the captain, but was divided
now half-revolving in his pivot-hole, with one hand reaching high up a shroud,
now, touching the Black Fish, so called, because blackness is the rule among
objects, man, are but as pasteboard masks.  But in each event --in the living
obligations to observe all whale-ships' standing orders, Keep your weather
oblong spots of black.  His oil is very superior, clear and fine; but there
observation, even upon so neutral a topic as the weather.  No!  And when
obtained.  All his peculiarities will, in many other places, be enlarged upon.
obviously seem better adapted to afford the basis for a regular system of
ocean at his feet for the visible image of that deep, blue, bottomless soul,
of clubbed voices.
of condescension or in terrorem, or otherwise; yet even Captain Ahab was
of it here, and frankly admit that I kept but sorry guard.  With the problem
of its fleshly tabernacle, and cannot freely move about in it, nor even move
of officers, a class unknown of course in any other marine than the
of the Glacier, which was the name of Captain Sleet's good craft.  He called
of the Pequod might more properly be said to have lived out of the cabin than
of the port, does she altogether relinquish the hope of capturing one whale
of the universe revolving in me, how could I--being left completely to myself
of the whales bodily, in their entire liberal volume, and boldly sort them
of uncertain, fugitive, half-fabulous whales, which, as an American
of your head in a hard gale.  Being fixed on the summit of the mast, you
off the stray narwhales, or vagrant sea unicorns infesting those waters; for
officer in the boat, but under certain circumstances (night watches on a
on bended knees, did likewise present to her highness another horn, pertaining
once sailed between the boots of the famous Colossus at old Rhodes.  There you
one good gallon of good oil.  But the fine and delicate fluid extracted from
only one that can possibly succeed, for it alone is practicable.  To proceed.
only people the soul by continually flitting through it.  In this enchanted
oppose me now, without rebellion.  God keep me! --keep us all!  murmured
or be the white whale principal, I will wreak that hate upon him.  Talk not
or side next the stern of the ship, is a comfortable seat, with a locker
order, nevertheless retain a proportionate likeness to them in figure, yet
other and more essential particulars.  Thus, the sperm whale and the
otherwise than hungry, more or less.  For what he ate did not so much relieve
ounce, my boys!  Huzza!  huzza!  cried the seamen, as with swinging
out of it, without running great risk of perishing (like an ignorant pilgrim
outlaws, even in the lawless seas.  thus ends book II. ( Octavo), and begins
outward homage as if he wore the imperial purple, and not the shabbiest of
paced; so completely possessing him, indeed, that it all but seemed the
packet-tracks.  In the length he attains, and in his baleen, the Fin-back
palsy.  Nor did the whetstone which the harpooneers carried in their pockets,
part of every shore the round globe over.  There is no life in thee, now,
parts above mentioned.  In various sorts of whales, they form such irregular
peculiar horn being originally mistaken for a peaked nose.  The creature is
peculiarity on ship-board, arising from the existence of the harpooneer class
perchance, the knife grazed against the plate; and chewed it noiselessly;
perhaps, will it fail to be eventually perceived, that behind those forms and
pervading mankind and nature; and every strange, half-seen, gliding,
pilot-cloth.  And though of all men the moody captain of the Pequod was the
pirate.  Very savage.  He is only found, I think, in the Pacific.  He is
planks so familiar to his tread, that they were all over dented, like
play herein, jealousy presiding over all creations.  But not my master, man,
pleasant the mast-head; nay, to a dreamy meditative man it is delightful.
point is, in what internal respect does the whale differ from other fish.
poison, and as such, preparations of it brought immense prices.  It was also
poor pegging
portentous
predictions from without, as verifications of the foregoing things within.
presence, in the character of Abjectus, or the Slave.  It is not the least
present may be numbered: --I., the Grampus; II., the Black Fish; III., the
presumed to help himself, this must have seemed to him tantamount to larceny
process.  Still less is known of the Thrasher than of the Killer.  Both are
prodigious long horn of the Narwhale, which for a long period after hung in
prodigious long upliftings of their legs, those old astronomers were wont to
professed naturalist.  From what I have seen of him at a distance, I should
professional superior; though always, by them, familiarly regarded as their
profound magnetic meditations, as to fail being attracted occasionally towards
progenitors, the builders of Babel, must doubtless, by their tower, have
properly speaking the thickest watch-coat is no more of a house than the
quarter-boat, has just been taking an observation of the sun; and is now
question, those dents looked deeper, even as his nervous step that morning
raised a whale yet.  Whales are scarce as hen's teeth whenever thou art up
rather are ye predictions than warnings, ye shadows!  Yet not so much
reaching out his knife and fork, between which the slice of beef was locked,
recognised him for one.  He is of moderate octavo size, varying from fifteen
recollection.  Captain Ahab, said Tashtego, that white whale must be the
regarded as alien.  Hence, all the smaller, spouting,
regarded as premonitory of the advance of the great sperm whale.  BOOK II.
regularly launched in pursuit of the game, the people of that island erected
relaxed, and in no instance done away.  Indeed, many are the Nantucket ships
relieved from some curious restraint; for, tipping all sorts of knowing winks
remotest and most sullen waters; his straight and single lofty jet rising
resembles the right whale, but is of a less portly girth, and a lighter
reserved for that daily purpose on the upper part of his ivory leg.  From his
resting in the top to have a chat with Queequeg, or any one else off duty whom
retiring nature, he eludes both hunters and philosophers.  Though no coward,
right with that important rope, he likewise takes up the old burden, and with
rostrated whales, are the fishermen's names for a few sorts.  In connexion
rotund and jolly girth; indeed, he is of quite a neat and gentleman-like
sadly destitute of anything approaching to a cosy inhabitiveness, or adapted
said to have gone by the board, in the dread gale of God's wrath; therefore,
salt-sea warriors would rise and depart; to his credulous, fable-mongering
same intense bigotry of purpose in his aspect.  It drew near the close of day.
same that some call Moby Dick.  Moby Dick?  shouted Ahab.  Do ye know the
sapling cannot, Starbuck!  And what is it?  Reckon it. 'Tis but to help strike
say dainty.  It seemed hardly possible that by such comparatively small
say that he was about the bigness of a grampus.  He is very savage --a sort of
scimetars in scabbards.  But, though these barbarians dined in the cabin, and
scuttle.  The second Emir lounges about the rigging
sea, is this--the first lives aft, the last forward.  Hence, in whale-ships
sea, no more to rise for ever.  Heed it well, ye Pantheists!
sea-unicorn's horn was in ancient days regarded as the great antidote against
seamen taking their regular turns (as at the helm), and relieving each other
securities; fall of stocks; are never troubled with the thought of what you
see in him outrageous strength, with an inscrutable malice sinewing it.
seeing what a faithful friend and comforter it must have been, while with
seemingly purposeless questions.  But, they were all eagerness again, as Ahab,
seems blasphemous.  Hark ye yet again, --the little lower layer.  All visible
separate colors, black above and white below.  The white comprises part of his
shall have for dinner --for all your meals for three years and more are snugly
shape of the Folio volume, but the Octavo volume does.
sharp ridge.  Let him go.  I know little more of him, nor does anybody else.
shelf or chest of drawers in your body, and no more can you make a
shelf, he goes down rollicking, so far at least as he remains visible from
ship's planks, and in the Glacier's case, perhaps, to there having been so
ship.  But for all this, the great negro was wonderfully abstemious, not to
ships take those absent-minded young philosophers to task, upbraiding them
short-sighted; what use, then, to strain the visual nerve?  They have left
shout; while the mariners began to gaze curiously at each other, as if
shuddering sort of little fellow, this bread-faced steward; the progeny of a
shut up in the caved trunk of his body, there fed upon the sullen paws of its
shy; always going solitary; unexpectedly rising to the surface in the
signifying nothing.  Finally: It was stated at the outset, that this system
silence, then, that voices thee. ( aside) something shot from my dilated
single hail from below, however madly invoked to befriend by their counsels
sitting silly and dumfoundered before awful Ahab.  Now, Ahab and his three
sleep, this dream is on ye, move your foot or hand an inch; slip your hold
sleeping-time, when they passed through it to their own peculiar quarters.
small and snug contrivances in which men temporarily isolate themselves.  Your
snorts to think of it.  Stand up amid the general hurricane, thy one tost
snuffed in the sublime life of the worlds.  Not by beef or by bread, are
so small that it is not very readily discernible.  But the next time you have
so the appellation must at last have come to be bestowed upon the whale from
so, too, in most of the American whalers the harpooneers are lodged in the
so; thou reddenest and palest; my heat has melted thee to anger-glow.  But
social arrogance.  With one mind, their intent eyes all fastened upon the old
social equal.  Now, the grand distinction drawn between officer and man at
some sixteen feet in length, while its horn averages five feet, though some
somewhat larger than the Huzza Porpoise, but much of the same general make.
son, and little boy of this weary family party.  His were the shinbones of
soon shows symptoms of concluding his repast, then Flask must bestir
soul were nigh him resumed his heavy turns upon the deck.  With bent head and
souls they would rather not see whales than otherwise.  But all in vain; those
sound of the hinges of their own jaws, the harpooneers chewed their food with
speaking, was slowly rubbing the gold piece against the skirts of his jacket,
spherical ripples, and this gnomon-like fin stands up and casts shadows upon
splice hands on it, now?  I think ye do look brave.  Aye, aye!  shouted the
spout is a big one, like a whole shock of wheat, and white as a pile of our
stair-like formation of all four sides of those edifices; whereby, with
stand, lost in the infinite series of the sea, with nothing ruffled but the
steady, ivory stride was heard, as to and fro he paced his old rounds, upon
steward, thrusting his pale loaf-of-bread face from the cabin-scuttle,
steward.  And then the three harpooneers were bidden to the feast, they being
still standing upon the top of the uncompleted tower.  For small erections may
stone pillar in the desert and spent the whole latter portion of
stowed in casks, and your bill of fare is immutable.  In one of those southern
striking than his baleen?  Yet we have seen that by his baleen it is
subdivisions based upon the most inconclusive differences, that some
subserve.  That certain sultanism of his brain, which had otherwise in a good
such a relish that there was a report to it.  They dined like lords; they
sucking his own paws; so, in his inclement, howling old age, Ahab's soul,
sudden racket in the hold below.  And poor little Flask, he was the youngest
sultan's step has died away, and Starbuck, the first Emir, has every reason to
summoned them there for the purpose of witnessing a pedestrian feat.  But this
sun do that, then could I do the other; since there is ever a sort of fair
superadd the official supremacy of a ship-master, then, by inference, you
superiority what it will, it can never assume the practical, available
suppose that he is seated, then Starbuck rouses from his quietude, takes a
supremacy over other men, without the aid of some sort of external arts and
surface of the Polar Sea,
surprise than the rest, and at the mention of the wrinkled brow and crooked
surprise, but at last seemed struck with a thought which somewhat explained
surrounding it somewhat resembles a dial, with its style and wavy hour-lines
swings himself to the deck, and in an even, unexhilarated voice, saying,
sword-fish and bill-fish; though some sailors tell me that the Narwhale
system does not proceed, inasmuch as the Porpoise is the smallest of the
table; this is marvellous, sometimes most comical.  Wherefore this
take it, that the earliest standers of mast-heads were the old Egyptians;
tarpaulins they hailed the act of nailing the gold to the mast.  It's a
tells us, that in the early times of the whale fishery, ere ships were
ten to one, let those very officers the next moment go down to their customary
that Flask once admitted in private, that ever since he had arisen to the
that his bones might be picked, the simple-witted Steward all but shattered
that in due rotation with the other seamen my first mast-head came round.  In
that in truth it is not so, is plainly evinced by an item for which Obed
that it seemed the mechanical humming of the wheels of his vitality in him.
that of a whale-ship
that way.  And this is the Bibliographical system here adopted; and it is the
that well replenished little case-bottle, so nicely tucked in on one side of
that while in the open air of the deck some officers will, upon provocation,
the Blue Whale; etc.  From Icelandic, Dutch, and old English authorities,
the British Greenland Fishery, under the corrupted title of Specksioneer,
the Coppered Whale; the Elephant Whale; the Iceberg Whale; the Quog Whale;
the Macrocephalus of the Long Words.  He is, without doubt, the largest
the Pacific, so far as it is known.  The only English name, by which he has
the auger-hole there, and with one hand grasping a shroud, he ordered Starbuck
the black terrific Ahab, and the periodical tumultuous visitations of these
the bookbinder's Quarto volume in its diminished form does not preserve the
the bright waist, that line streaks him from stem to stern, with two
the castle at Windsor.  An Irish author avers that the Earl of Leicester,
the circle preliminary to scalping him.  He was naturally a very nervous,
the crockery hanging round him in the pantry, by his sudden fits of the
the dead level of the mass.  Such large virtue lurks in these small things
the deck owing to the resistance of the water, but to shoot down upon them is
the deck, reversing all other processions, by bringing up the rear with music.
the deep, yet is he not popularly classed among whales.  But possessing all
the distracted decks upon which they gaze; however it may be surmised, that
the far horizon; but lulled into such an opium-like listlessness of vacant,
the following
the frozen seas.  In the fire-side narrative of Captain Sleet, entitled A
the grand distinctive features of the leviathan, most naturalists have
the hammer uplifted in one hand, exhibiting the gold with the other, and with
the idea also, that this same spermaceti was that quickening humor of the
the last person down at the dinner,
the lip in eating --an ugly sound enough --so much so, that the trembling
the mariner.  Full of fine spirits, they invariably come from the breezy
the mask!  How can the prisoner reach outside except by thrusting through the
the most gamesome and light-hearted of all
the northern American coast.  He has been frequently captured there, and towed
the previous repast, often the pale Dough-Boy was fain to bring on a great
the punctilious externals, at least, of the quarter-deck are seldom materially
the rack), together with a powder flask and shot, for the purpose of popping
the saline beef; his would have been the drumsticks.  For Flask to have
the second species of my Folios?  It is the Great Mysticetus of the English
the ship denied it to him, on account of its clotting his clear, sunny
the sun -- it is a sixteen dollar piece, men.  D'ye see it?  Mr. Starbuck,
the surface.  When the sea is moderately calm, and slightly marked with
the top-maul; a white whale.  Skin your eyes for him, men; look sharp for
the various hours you spend at the mast-head would amount to several entire
the vessel's leaving her port; even though she may have fifteen thousand
the whale which for more than two centuries past has been hunted by the Dutch
the whales from the waters, he states as follows: On account of their warm
the whales, making more gay foam and white water generally than any other of
the winds in the cordage; nor yet the hollow flap of the sails against the
the wrinkled surface, it may well be supposed that the watery circle
thee; I see!  the billow lifts thee!  Speak, but speak! --Aye, aye!  thy
their departure, taking place in inverted order to their arrival, the canvas
their forecastle appellations; for possibly such a list may be valuable to
their opera-glasses at home.  Why, thou monkey, said a harpooneer to one of
their spirits penetrate through the thick haze of the future, and descry what
them for other and more private ends than they were legitimately intended to
them to produce their weapons.  Then ranging them before him near the capstan,
them.  BOOK I. ( Folio), CHAPTER V. ( Razor Back). --Of this whale little is
then, by a dexterous sleight, pitching his cap up into the mizentop for a
then, the plebeian herds crouch abased before the tremendous centralization.
theoretic species denominated Whalebone whales, that is, whales with baleen.
there like a leech, till the mighty brute is worried to death.  The Killer
there might be quoted other lists of uncertain whales, blessed with all
therein certainly must have been some touch of mundane grandeur.  But he who
these lads, we've been cruising now hard upon three years, and thou hast not
these things do in some cases tend to beget a less rigorous discipline than in
they can be killed; and this sunken-eyed young Platonist will tow you ten
they were scarcely ever in it except at meal-times, and just before
they would ostentatiously sharpen their knives; that grating sound did not
thin, some of these whales will yield you upwards of thirty gallons of oil.
thine eye!  more intolerable than fiends' glarings is a doltish stare!  So,
things whose peculiarities are indiscriminately dispersed among all sorts of
think there's naught beyond.  But 'tis enough.  He tasks me; he heaps me; I
this admirable volume, all standers of mast-heads are furnished with a
this custom has now become obsolete; turn we then to the one proper mast-head,
this old Dutch official is still retained, but his former dignity is sadly
this same humpbacked whale and the Greenland whale, each of these has baleen;
those enviable little tents or pulpits, called crow's-nests, in which the
those times, also, spermaceti was exceedingly scarce, not being used for
though a smaller one.  His oil is not very valuable.  He has baleen.  He is
though there were times when, owing to peculiar circumstances connected with
though uncorking a bottle -- like him--him-- Corkscrew!  cried Ahab, aye,
three savages, Dough-Boy's whole life was one continual lip-quiver.
thus multitudinously baptized.  What then is the whale, which I include in
till all was over.  It was a sight to see Queequeg seated over against
till he spouts black blood and rolls fin out.  What say ye, men, will ye
times, but never yet saw him captured.  BOOK III. ( Duodecimo), CHAPTER III.
to a land beast of the unicorn nature.  The Narwhale has a very picturesque,
to be vague or inexpressive, I shall say so, and suggest another.  I do so
to breed a comfortable localness of feeling, such as pertains to a bed, a
to describe, as he does, all the little detailed conveniences of his
to go aft at dinner-time, and get a peep at Flask through the cabin sky-light,
to half sob and half shout.  God bless ye, men.  Steward!  go draw the great
to me of blasphemy, man; I'd strike the sun if it insulted me.  For could the
to say deprecatory and humble air towards him, as he sits at the head of the
to twenty-five feet in length, and of corresponding dimensions round the
together with their common vigilance, intrepidity, and hard work; though all
too, Captain, cried Queequeg disjointedly, all twiske-tee betwisk, like
too, said Daggoo, very bushy, even for a parmacetty, and mighty quick,
too, upon that ribbed
touching Emperors and Kings, I must not conceal that I have only to do with
towering main-mast in Baltimore, and like one of Hercules' pillars, his
trappings and housings are denied me.  Oh, Ahab!  what shall be grand in thee,
treats us to a very scientific account of his experiments in this crow's-nest,
unclad body; for as the soul is glued inside
unconscious reverie is this absent-minded youth by the blending cadence of
underneath for umbrellas, comforters, and coats.  In front is a leather rack,
undiscernible form, seems to him the embodiment of those elusive thoughts that
unfinished, even as the great Cathedral of Cologne was left, with the crane
uniform turn that he made, now at the main-mast and now at the binnacle, you
united in the opinion that the reasons set forth were altogether insufficient.
unknown in his own proper individuality, and when his oil was only
unworshipping things, that live; and seek, and give no reasons for the torrid
upon the broad sea keep tossing themselves to heaven like caps in a
upon two thin parallel sticks (almost peculiar to whalemen) called the t'
usages, as it were, he sometimes masked himself; incidentally making use of
vanity of glory: there's the insanity of life!  Besides, if it were so that
varieties, most of which, however, are little known.  Broad-nosed whales and
vertically from the hinder part of the back, of an angular shape, and with a
very ancient and interesting one, let us in some measure expatiate here.  I
very sharp pointed end.  Even if not the slightest other part of the creature
voyage, saith Black Letter, on bended knees he presented to her highness a
waist.  He swims in herds; he is never regularly hunted, though his oil is
waiter who waits upon cannibals.  Not a napkin should he carry on his arm,
wakes round the world, and never make you one pint of sperm the richer.  Nor
wall?  To me, the white whale is that wall, shoved near to me.  Sometimes I
walrus spouts much like a whale, but the walrus is not a fish, because he is
was not a great while after the affair of the pipe, that one morning shortly
was not to be driven from his place by fogs or frosts, rain, hail, or sleet;
watchmakers.
waters, butter was at a premium, and therefore was not for him, a subaltern;
waves with thoughts, that at last he loses his identity; takes the mystic
waves.  The tranced ship indolently rolls; the drowsy trade winds blow;
we cannot give these Babel builders priority over the Egyptians.  And that the
were eyeing him, for he looked not unlike the weather horizon when a storm is
whale is --i.  e.  a spouting fish, with a horizontal tail.  BOOK III.
whale is, I do by no means exclude from the leviathanic brotherhood any sea
whale of the English and the right whale of the Americans.  But they precisely
whale will be elsewhere treated of at some length, with reference to
whale with a wrinkled brow and a crooked jaw; whosoever of ye raises me that
whale, the Horned whale, and the Unicorn whale.  He is certainly a curious
whale, to keep up the supply of cheap oil for domestic employment --as some
whale-craft, this seems as good a place as any to set down a little domestic
whale-fleet.  The large importance attached to the harpooneer's vocation is
whale.  there is a deal of obscurity concerning the identity of the species
whaleman, I know by reputation, but not personally.  I shall enumerate them by
whalemen, on a long three or four years' voyage, as often happens, the sum of
whales, shall hereafter be caught and marked, then he can readily be
whales, without any regard to what may be the nature of their structure in
whales.  Above, you have all the Leviathans of note.  But there are a rabble
whales; and have presented them with their passports to quit the kingdom of
whaling ground) the command of the ship's deck is also his; therefore the
whaling life, a sublime uneventfulness invests you; you hear no news; read
when I was before the mast.  There's the fruits of promotion now; there's the
when extreme political superstitions invest them, that in some royal
which this spermaceti was really derived.  BOOK I. ( Folio), CHAPTER II.
while the whales of this order, though smaller than those of the former
whispered Stubb, what's that for?  methinks it rings most vast, but hollow.
white coral beach, surrounded by his warlike but still deferential cubs.  In
white water; if ye see but a bubble, sing out.  All this while Tashtego,
white whale then, Tash?  Does he fan-tail a little curious, sir, before he
white whale, I say, resumed Ahab, as he threw down
white-headed whale, with three holes punctured in his starboard fluke --look
who become famous more through their infinite inferiority to the choice hidden
who, as a set, rather incline to the opinion that by rights the ship's cabin
whole book is but a draught --nay, but the draught of a draught.  Oh Time,
widely contrasting serenity of those seductive seas in which we South fishers
will derive the cause of that peculiarity of sea-life just mentioned.
will strike, strike through
wish I could fist a bit of old-fashioned beef in the forecastle, as I used to
with Stubb and Flask, had thus far been eyeing his superior with increasing
with a small compass he kept there for the purpose of counteracting the
with not feeling sufficient interest in the voyage; half-hinting that they
with some touch of pleasantness, Dinner, Mr. Stubb, and descends the
with the one then known in England as the Greenland or Right Whale.  It was
with this appellative of Whalebone whales , it is of great importance to
wondrous power and velocity in swimming, as to defy all present pursuit from
woods, burying himself in the hollow of a tree, lived out the winter there,
wore on; --Ahab now shut up within his cabin; anon, pacing the deck, with the
would be hard to say.  It does not seemed to be used like the blade of the
would not be here, and at once, perfected.  You cannot but plainly see that I
would seem, was popularly supposed to be derived from a creature identical
ye!  d'ye see this Spanish ounce of gold? --holding up a broad bright coin to
ye, whosoever of ye raises me that same white whale, he shall have this gold
yet given that a hidden hero is there; for where there is smoke, must be
yet they also have the privilege of lounging in the rear.  If Stubb even, who
you cannot successfully shoot at them from
you may carry your house aloft with you, in the shape of a watch-coat; but
you, ye ship-owners of Nantucket!  Beware of enlisting in your vigilant
young Platonists have a notion that their vision is imperfect; they are
your legs, as it were, swim the hugest monsters of the sea, even as ships
