




















































































































































































     ( As told at the Golden Inn.)
     ( Foresail
     ( Stubb solus, and
     ( enter Ahab: Then, all.) It
     A goney, he replied.  Goney!  I never had heard that name before;  is it
     Ahab sitting alone, and gazing out.  I leave a white and turbid wake;
     All at once the out-stretched arm gave a peculiar motion and then remained
     And as for Pirates, when they chance to cross each other's cross-bones, the
     And what do ye next, men?  Lower away, and after him!  And what tune is
     Aye, Starbuck; aye, my hearties all round; it was Moby Dick that dismasted
     Barrens and Salisbury Plains of the sea, two whaling vessels descrying each
     But I doubt not, that leathern tally, meant for man, was taken off in
     But ere stepping into the cabin doorway below, he pauses, ships a new face
     But sliding down the ropes like baleful comets, the two Canallers rushed into
     But to this their leader as fiercely objected, reserving that priority for
     By the Mainmast; Starbuck leaning
     Charley profanely hinted they were humbug.  Be it known that, waiving all
     Concerning the officers of the
     Days, weeks passed, and under easy
     Dinner, Mr. Starbuck, disappears into the cabin.  When the last echo of his
     Drink and pass!  he cried, handing the heavy charged flagon to the nearest
     During the night, Radney had an unseamanlike way of sitting on the
     For three hundred and sixty miles, gentlemen, through the entire breadth of
     French Sailor Hist, boys!  let's have a jig or two before we ride to anchor
     Good a mast-head as any, sir.  Will you mount?  That I will, and thank ye
     Good!  cried Ahab, with a wild approval in his tones; observing the hearty
     Had you followed Captain Ahab down into his
     I say three years, but I am pretty sure it was more than that.  Here are
     I, Ishmael, was one of that crew; my shouts
     Imperial Electors, so these cabin meals were somehow solemn meals, eaten in
     It is chiefly with his name that I now have to do.  Philologically considered,
     It is noon; and Dough-Boy, the
     It was a cloudy, sultry afternoon;
     It was during the more pleasant weather,
     Meantime the sky darkens -- the wind rises.)
     Narwhale; IV., the Thrasher; V., the Killer.  BOOK II. ( Octavo), CHAPTER
     Nevertheless, this same expressive word has now for many years been in
     OCTAVOES.  These embrace the whales of middling magnitude, among which at
     Of modern standers-of-mast-heads we have but a lifeless set; mere stone,
     Of these so called Whalebone whales, there would seem to be several
     On the fourth day of the sail, a large canoe was descried, which seemed to
     Queequeg, said I, come along, you shall be my lawyer, executor, and
     Radney, pretending not to have heard the sailors' talk.  "Thunder away at it!"
     Razor Back Whale; VI.  the Sulphur Bottom Whale.  BOOK I. ( Folio),
     Say what ye will, shipmate; I've sharp ears.  Aye, you are the chap, ain't
     Silently obeying the order, the three harpooneers now stood with the detached
     Sing out and say something, my hearties.  Roar and pull, my thunderbolts!
     Smuggled on board, somehow, before the ship sailed. (Strong, strong, boys! )
     So far as what there may be of a
     So ignorant are most landsmen of some of the plainest and most palpable
     South-eastward from the Cape, off the
     Stab me not with that keen steel!  Cant them; cant them over!  know ye not
     Suddenly he came to a halt by the bulwarks, and inserting his bone leg into
     That protection could only consist in his own predominating brain and heart
     That's it --that's it.  Now ye do something; that looks like it, my
     The Cape of Good Hope, and all the watery region round about there, is much
     The Huzza Porpoise.  II.  The Algerine Porpoise.  III.  The Mealy-mouthed
     The cabin; by the stern windows;
     The ostensible reason why Ahab did not go on
     The phantoms, for so they then
     There are certain queer times and occasions
     This elusive quality it is, which causes the thought of whiteness, when
     This latter circumstance, with its own particular accompaniments, forming
     Though, consumed with the hot fire of his
     Time!  time!  Dough-Boy hurried below, glanced at the watch, and reported
     Vengeance on a dumb brute!  cried Starbuck, that simply smote thee from
     Was it not so, O Don Miguel!  thou Chilian whale, marked like an old
     Whale; III.  the Fin Back Whale; IV.  the Hump-backed Whale; V. the
     What is it that in the Albino man so peculiarly repels and often shocks the
     What the white whale was to
     Where-away?  On the lee-beam, about two miles off!  a school of them!
     Who would have thought
     Yes, that's the law.  I should like to see a boat's crew backing water up to a
     against it.  My soul is more than matched; she's overmanned; and by a
     all around at the horizon, the White Steed gallopingly reviewed them with
     and accursed fiends beckoned him to leap down among them; when this hell in
     and considering that Starbuck, notwithstanding, was famous for his great
     and discover sights more sweet and strange than any Cyclades or Islands of
     and every stunsail spread.  The best man in the ship must take the helm.
     and in the Greek mythologies, Great Jove himself made incarnate in a
     and let us hear what he can say for himself."  For a moment the exhausted
     and partially beneath a thin layer of water, also, the whales were swimming.
     and such like pretty exclamations.  Why it is that all Merchant-seamen, and
     and tightly, almost convulsively grasping it, addressed them thus: -- All ye
     and we're your men; but we won't be flogged." "Turn to!  I make no
     and with curses, the appalling beauty of the vast milky mass, that lit up by
     another, the sperm whales, guided by some infallible instinct -- say, rather,
     are accounted a lucky omen.  If you yourself can withstand three cheers at
     are some remarkable documents that may be consulted.  Nevertheless, some there
     as a body.  There are those this day among them, who, though intelligent and
     be in a hurry.  Why don't you snap your oars, you rascals?  Bite something,
     book i. ( folio), chapter iv. ( hump back). --this whale is often seen on
     business of heaving down the ship to stop the leak.  But to such unresting
     but it was to no purpose.  And in this way the two went once slowly round the
     cannot recall to him anything associated with the experience of former
     chase the white whale?  art not game for Moby Dick?  I am game for his
     circumstance in point, peculiarly interesting to the writer hereof.
     comes the music; now for it!  Azore Sailor ( Ascending, and pitching the
     complete boat's crew must leave the ship, and hence as the boat steerer or
     copestone to posterity.  God keep me from ever completing anything.  This
     could almost see that thought turn in him as he turned, and pace in him as he
     druggists as you nowadays buy an ounce of rhubarb.  When, as I opine, in the
     far off upon the sea; and finally fell to rearing and plunging in the boat's
     fears of ultimate retribution, had constrained them to surrender at
     follow.) Our captain stood upon the deck, A spy-glass in his hand, A
     for a vast practical joke, though the wit thereof he but dimly discerns,
     for granted the ship had struck against a rock; but when the amazement was a
     for leagues and leagues are flanked by ancient and unentered forests, where
     for what was thought to be one of the spare boats, and even solicitously
     friends, one saint's eve, smoking upon the thick-gilt tiled piazza of the
     from the pewter.  Now, three to three, ye stand.  Commend the murderous
     gained his distinctive appellation of the white Whale; a name, indeed,
     give way, all four boats.  Thou, Flask, pull out more to leeward!  Aye,
     hay, and especially as they do not spout, I deny their credentials as
     he had rather a peculiar way of talking to them in general, and especially
     hereabouts in this dull, warm, most lazy, and hereditary land, we know but
     in a whisper to his crew, then speaking out loud again: A sad business,
     insulated, immemorial, unalterable countries, which even in these modern
     is famous for his tail, which he uses for a ferule in thrashing his foes.  He
     is, the intensifying agent in things the most appalling to mankind.  Is it
     last the Captain made a postman of it; tying a lettered, leathern tally
     lying in various attitudes, all singing in chorus.) Farewell and
     main hatches, I saw a regal, feathery thing of unspotted whiteness, and
     man walked.  But though the ship so swiftly sped, and though from every eye,
     me through!  Peace!  ye revellers, and set the watch!  Oh, life! 'tis in an
     mending a brace.) Ha!  ha!  ha!  ha!  hem!  clear my throat! --I've been
     miasmas, with all the other common perils incident to wandering in the heart
     milliner's tiller decorated with gay cords and ribbons.  But the whale-boat
     mostly float.  For one, I used to lounge up the rigging very leisurely,
     nor, on the other hand, link with it any fish hitherto authoritatively
     not sufficiently distinguish him, since the sperm whale also has a hump,
     or if indeed he should ever be made to spout thick
     prolonged gale, in waters hard upon the Antarctic seas.  From my forenoon
     requirest a little lower layer.  If money's to be the measurer, man, and the
     rises and discovers the watch standing, lounging, leaning, and
     rocks, with all the other ordinary subjects of fearful contemplation, 
     run a muck from the bowsprit to the taffrail; and if by any devilishness of
     scuttle,)  Star--bo--l-e-e-n-s, a-h-o-y!  Eight bells there below!  Tumble
     sense of peculiar dread at this flitting apparition, as if it were
     she would infallibly encounter him there.  So, too, with some other feeding
     ship she now meets.  Besides, they would exchange the whaling news, and have
     shoals and what rocks must be shunned.  It may seem unwarrantable to couple in
     sleep or lie among the coils of rigging.  Oaths a-plenty.) Azore
     sleepy.) Don't know where it is.  French Sailor Beat thy belly, then, and
     some lurid woe would shrivel me up, had I it.  Yet is there hope.  Time and
     some of the ship's company; but Archy's fancied discovery having some time
     stand no nonsense.  I will now refer you to Langsdorff's Voyages for a little
     tambourine up the scuttle.)
     tell; with a treacherous hook and line, as the fowl floated on the sea.  At
     that my vengeance will fetch a great premium here!  He smites his chest,
     the Town-Ho had all but certainly arrived in perfect safety at her port
     the chick that's in him pecks the shell.  T'will soon be out.  The hours
     the circular.  This chart divides the ocean into districts of five degrees
     the forecastle.  In a few minutes the scuttle was opened, and, bound hand
     the ship Essex, Captain Pollard, of
     the water covering every rib and plank, so that to our downward gazing eyes
     them.  I call them thus, because he always swims in hilarious shoals, which
     then.  But at last I awoke; and turning, asked a sailor what bird was this.
     there yet lurks an elusive something in the innermost idea of this hue, which
     they swore they were ready for that, or for any other mad thing, for
     though in after life he had long followed our austere Atlantic and your
     tightly clenched hand.  Though the body was erect, the head was thrown back
     to send everybody aft.  Sir!  said the mate, astonished at an order seldom or
     told his persecutor that if the hammer but grazed his cheek he (Steelkilt)
     totally
     under the windlass) Jollies?  Lord help such jollies!  Crish, crash!  there
     upon resuming the head of his watch at night.  Upon this, and one or two
     veins, as they are called; continuing their way along a given ocean-line
     wax, day after day tore on through all the swift madness and gladness of the
     we borrow the expressive hue of the shroud in which we wrap them.  Nor even
     were the Loom of Time, and I myself were a shuttle mechanically weaving and
     whale oil, an inferior article in commerce.  Among the fishermen, he is
     when every foremast-hand has clutched a whetstone?  Ah!  constrainings seize
     whose eyes had been setting to windward like two fixed stars, suddenly
     with their harpoons in their hands, while his three mates stood at his side
     with truly nautical duties, such being the case with his comrades.  I mention
     you pour out again."  Freely depicted in his own vocation, gentlemen, the
     you will clearly perceive that, according to all human reasoning,
    !  Hist!  Did you hear that noise, Cabaco?
 "A pretty scholar," laughed the Lakeman."Adios, Senor!" and leaping into the
 "Aye, aye, my merry lads, it's a lively leak this; hold a cannikin, one of
 "Aye, aye, sir," said Steelkilt, merry as a cricket.  "Lively, boys, lively,
 "Like a lanyard for your bag; but it's an odd one, seems to me." "Yes,
 "Oh!  certainly," said the Captain and the key clicked.  It was at this
 "Turn to!  turn to! --I make no promise; --to your duty!  Do you want to sink
 "Well for our northern friend, Dame Isabella's Inquisition wanes in Lima,"
 "You are a coward!" hissed the Lakeman.  "So I am, but take that."  The mate
 ( The half of them dance to the tambourine; some go below; some
"We have seen many whale-ships in our harbors, but never heard of your
"but I think it will answer.  Shipmate, I haven't enough twine, --have you
'Twas not so hard a task.  I thought to find one stubborn, at
'em through it.  Tell 'em to avast dreaming of their lasses.  Tell 'em it's
( Duodecimo), CHAPTER I ( Huzza Porpoise). -- This is the common porpoise
( Mealy-mouthed Porpoise).  The largest kind of Porpoise; and only found in
( Octavo), CHAPTER II. ( Black Fish). --I give the popular fishermen's names
( Right Whale).--In one respect this is the most venerable of the
( grimly) None.  St.  Jago's Sailor That Spaniard's mad or drunk.  But that
(Pull, my boys!) Sperm, sperm's the play!  This at least is duty; duty and
(ere the final truck was put to it) as that great stone mast of theirs may be
(eternal rest),  whence Requiem denominating the mass itself, and any
(subdivisible into Chapters), and these shall comprehend them all, both small
-- Corrupt as Lima.  It but bears out your saying, too; churches more
-- He's got fits, that
-- here's a hollow!  Men, ye seem the years; so brimming life is gulped and
--Another instance of a curiously named whale, so named I suppose from his
--Buffalo!  Pray, what is a Lakeman, and where is Buffalo?" said Don
--Olassen and Povelson --declaring the Sperm Whale not only to be a
--Take some one of your own size; don't pommel me!  No, ye've knocked me
--Under this head I reckon a monster which, by the various names of
--as if from encircling headlands shoals of combed white bears were swimming
--aye, chance, free will, and necessity --no wise incompatible --all
--flutterings!  lip!  heart!  hip!  all graze: unceasing touch and go!  not
--give us a whiff, Tash. ( They cease dancing, and gather in clusters.
--he speaks of the mysterious and mortal attack of the animal.
--however grand and wonderful, now quit it; --and take your way, ye nobler,
--however that may be --it would certainly be very convenient to him for a
--justice demanded it; but for the present, considering their timely
--long swallows, men; 'tis hot as Satan's hoof.  So, so; it goes round
--merry's the word.  Pull, babes --pull, sucklings -- pull, all.  But what the
--neither twine nor lanyard were seen again; but the next night an iron ball,
--not thou nor I can bear the change!  How then, if so be transplanted to yon
--shirr!  shirr! --but spoken of once!  and only this evening -- it makes me
--that I feel; the jagged edge galls me so, my brain seems to beat against
--the Heeva-Heeva!  Ah!  low veiled, high palmed Tahiti!  I still rest me on thy
--why, as we have seen, it is at once the most meaning symbol of spiritual
.  By that circular, it appears that precisely
.. < chapter L 27  AHAB'S BOAT AND CREW.  FEDALLAH >
.. < chapter li 16  THE SPIRIT-SPOUT >
.. < chapter lii 13  THE ALBATROSS >
.. < chapter liii 17  THE GAM >
.. < chapter liv 26  THE TOWN-HO'S STORY >
.. < chapter xl 2  MIDNIGHT, FORECASTLE HARPOONERS AND SAILORS >
.. < chapter xli 9  MOBY DICK >
.. < chapter xlii 6  THE WHITENESS OF THE WHALE >
.. < chapter xliii 10  HARK >
.. < chapter xliv 12  THE CHART >
.. < chapter xlix 15  THE HYENA >
.. < chapter xlv 24  THE AFFIDAVIT >
.. < chapter xlvi 22  SURMISES >
.. < chapter xlvii 14  THE MAT-MAKER >
.. < chapter xlviii 2  THE FIRST LOWERING >
.. < chapter xxxiii 24  THE SPECKSYNDER >
.. < chapter xxxiv 15  THE CABIN-TABLE >
.. < chapter xxxix 2  FIRST NIGHT-WATCH FORE-TOP >
.. < chapter xxxv 2  THE MAST-HEAD >
.. < chapter xxxvi 21  THE QUARTER-DECK >
.. < chapter xxxvii 7  SUNSET >
.. < chapter xxxviii 26  DUSK >
.. <p 132 >
.. <p 132n. >
.. <p 133 >
.. <p 134 >
.. <p 135 >
.. <p 136 >
.. <p 137 >
.. <p 137n. >
.. <p 138 >
.. <p 139 >
.. <p 140 >
.. <p 141 >
.. <p 142 >
.. <p 142 >
.. <p 143 >
.. <p 144 >
.. <p 145 >
.. <p 145 >
.. <p 146 >
.. <p 147 >
.. <p 148 >
.. <p 149 >
.. <p 150 >
.. <p 151 >
.. <p 152 >
.. <p 153 >
.. <p 154 >
.. <p 155 >
.. <p 156 >
.. <p 157 >
.. <p 157 >
.. <p 158 >
.. <p 159 >
.. <p 160 >
.. <p 161 >
.. <p 162 >
.. <p 163 >
.. <p 164 >
.. <p 165 >
.. <p 165 >
.. <p 166 >
.. <p 166 >
.. <p 167 >
.. <p 168 >
.. <p 169 >
.. <p 170 >
.. <p 171 >
.. <p 172 >
.. <p 173 >
.. <p 174 >
.. <p 175 >
.. <p 175 >
.. <p 176 >
.. <p 177 >
.. <p 178 >
.. <p 179 >
.. <p 180 >
.. <p 181 >
.. <p 182 >
.. <p 183 >
.. <p 184 >
.. <p 185 >
.. <p 185 >
.. <p 186 >
.. <p 187 >
.. <p 187n. >
.. <p 188 >
.. <p 188n. >
.. <p 189 >
.. <p 190 >
.. <p 191 >
.. <p 192 >
.. <p 193 >
.. <p 194 >
.. <p 194 >
.. <p 195 >
.. <p 195 >
.. <p 196 >
.. <p 196n. >
.. <p 197 >
.. <p 198 >
.. <p 199 >
.. <p 200 >
.. <p 200 >
.. <p 201 >
.. <p 202 >
.. <p 203 >
.. <p 204 >
.. <p 204n. >
.. <p 205 >
.. <p 205n. >
.. <p 206 >
.. <p 207 >
.. <p 208 >
.. <p 209 >
.. <p 209 >
.. <p 210 >
.. <p 211 >
.. <p 212 >
.. <p 212 >
.. <p 213 >
.. <p 214 >
.. <p 215 >
.. <p 216 >
.. <p 217 >
.. <p 218 >
.. <p 219 >
.. <p 220 >
.. <p 221 >
.. <p 222 >
.. <p 223 >
.. <p 224 >
.. <p 225 >
.. <p 225 >
.. <p 226 >
.. <p 227 >
.. <p 227 >
.. <p 228 >
.. <p 229 >
.. <p 230 >
.. <p 230 >
.. <p 231 >
.. <p 232 >
.. <p 233 >
.. <p 234 >
.. <p 234 >
.. <p 234n. >
.. <p 235 >
.. <p 236 >
.. <p 236 >
.. <p 237 >
.. <p 238 >
.. <p 239 >
.. <p 240 >
.. <p 240 >
.. <p 241 >
.. <p 242 >
.. <p 243 >
.. <p 244 >
.. <p 245 >
.. <p 246 >
.. <p 247 >
.. <p 248 >
.. <p 249 >
.. <p 250 >
.. <p 251 >
.. <p 252 >
.. <p 253 >
.. <p 254 >
.. <p 255 >
.. <p 256 >
.. <p 257 >
.. <p 258 >
.. <p 259 >
Above, Linnaeus has given you those items.  But in brief, they are these:
According to magnitude I divide the whales into three primary BOOKS
Admiral Nelson, also, on a capstan of gun-metal, stands his mast-head in
Ahab said to that tiger-yellow crew of his --these were words best omitted
Ahab that had gone to his hammock, was not the agent that so caused
Ahab thereby motioned Starbuck's plate towards him, the mate received his
Ahab, has been hinted; what, at times, he was to me, as yet remains unsaid.
Ahab, the scheming, unappeasedly steadfast hunter of the white whale; this
Ahab, to that one end, did now possess a thousand fold more potency than ever
Albino is as well made as other men --has no substantive deformity --and yet
American flag, who have never hostilely encountered the Sperm Whale, but
Among whale-wise people it has often been argued whether, considering the
And in return for that courtesy, the outward-bound ship would receive the
And often you will notice that being conscious of the eyes of the whole
And when we consider that other theory of the natural philosophers, that all
And yet, though herds of whales were seen by night, not one whaleman
Archy.  Oh, I don't mind 'em, sir, said Archy; I knew it all before now.
Arkansas duellist at his foe, blindly seeking with a six inch blade to reach
Aside from those more obvious considerations touching Moby Dick, which could
At that moment the two wakes were fairly crossed, and instantly, then, in
Avast the chorus!  Eight bells there!  d'ye hear, bell-boy?  Strike the bell
BOOK I. ( Folio), CHAPTER VI. ( Sulphur Bottom). -- Another retiring
BOOK II. ( Octavo), CHAPTER III. ( Narwhale), that is, Nostril whale.
BOOK III. ( Duodecimo).  DUODECIMOES. --These include the smaller whales.  I.
Babylon; and to have been Belshazzar, not haughtily but courteously,
Beach me, beach me on their black backs, boys; only do that for me, and I'll
Because, in the case of pirates, say, I should like to know whether that
Belshazzar's, for Belshazzar was not the greatest.  Who has but once dined
Besides he all the time looked so easy and indolent himself, so loungingly
Besides, all the days I should now live would be as good as the days that
Blanc, or Louis the Devil.  Great Washington, too, stands high aloft on his
Bloody?  And those sublimer towers, the White Mountains of New Hampshire,
Burkes and blinded Bendigoes!  I will not say as school-boys do to bullies,
But a sudden, terrific, downward jerking of the boat, quickly brought his
But all this might remain inadequately estimated, were not something said
But as the mind does not exist unless leagued with the soul, therefore it
But he drilled deep down, and blasted all my reason out of me!  I think I see
But it bade far to outstrip them; it flew on and on, as a mass of
But those wild eyes met his, as the bloodshot eyes of the prairie wolves
But where this superiority in the English whalemen does really consist, it
But with Ahab the question assumed a modified aspect.  Considering that with
But you cannot prove either of these surmises to be correct.  My own opinion
CHAPTER I. ( Sperm Whale). --This whale, among the English of old vaguely
Canaller would make a fine dramatic hero, so abundantly and picturesquely
Canallers are; for such information may throw side-light upon my story."
Canallers, thus far apparently of one mind with him, to burst out of their
Canallers.  Pardon: who and what are they?" "Canallers, Don, are the boatmen
Captain Ahab?  And he have one, two, tree --oh!  good many iron in him hide,
Captain with a heartless jeer.  "Shut us up again, will ye!" cried Steelkilt.
Captain; who, to the amazement of all hands, started back, paced the deck
Cetology than any other detached bodily distinctions, which the whale, in his
Cetology.
Chinese jacket of black cotton funereally invested him, with wide black
Cholo, the words above.  Hist!  did you hear that noise, Cabaco?  Take the
Christian corn-field, and recklessly ploughing the waters of the most barbaric
Cleopatra, ripening his apricot thigh upon the sunny deck.  But ashore, all
Close to our bows, strange forms in the water darted hither and thither before
Coast, and various other parts of the world, designated by them Right Whale
Coffin said it was used for an ice-piercer; for the Narwhale, rising to the
Coffin, of Nantucket, both messmates of mine in a certain voyage, and they
Commodore Davis of the British navy found the skeleton of a sperm whale.  Now,
Commodore's craft
Commodore's interview with that whale as providential.  Was not Saul of Tarsus
Commonly, after seeing the harpooneers furnished with all things they
Constantinople?  Yes.  For the peculiar snow-white brow of Moby Dick, and his
Cruising Grounds.  Some pretend to see a difference between the Greenland
D'Wolf applied immediately to the pumps to examine whether or not the vessel
Daggoo seated on the floor, for a bench would have brought his hearse-plumed
Daggoo, and Queequeg had looked on with even more intense interest and
Dick that took off thy leg?  Who told thee that?  cried Ahab; then pausing,
Dick ye have seen --Moby Dick-- Moby Dick!  Captain Ahab, said Starbuck, who,
Dick; and a still greater number who, chancing only to hear of him distantly
Didn't I hear 'em in the hold?  And didn't I tell Cabaco here of it?  What say
Dons --nay, nay!  I cannot rehearse that now.  Let me get more into the air,
Dorchester near Boston.  I have the honor of being a nephew of his.  I have
Dough-Boy almost looked to see whether any marks of teeth lurked in his own
Dough-Boy's memory by snatching him up bodily, and thrusting his head into a
Dugongs (Pig-fish and Sow-fish of the Coffins of Nantucket) are included by
Duodecimoes are infallibly whales, by the terms of my definition of what a
Egyptians were a nation of mast-head standers, is an assertion based upon the
Emperor, must in all probability have been a sperm whale.
Empire, Caesarian, heir to overlording Rome, having for the imperial color
Europe, does the tall pale man of the Hartz forests, whose changeless
Fat-Cutter; usage, however, in time made it equivalent to Chief Harpooneer.
Fearing in his heart lest this might prove but too true, the captain a little
Feegee fish.  He sometimes takes the great Folio whales by the lip, and hangs
Fin-Back, Tall-Spout, and Long-John, has been seen almost in every sea and is
Fishery,
Flask has.  Fits?  yes, give him fits --that's the very word -- pitch fits
Flask mounted upon gigantic Daggoo was yet more curious; for sustaining
Flask, have for ever departed from my stomach.  I am an officer; but, how I
Flask.  If his leg were off at the hip, now, it would be a different thing.
For in his Natural History, the Baron himself affirms that at sight of the
For one, I gave myself up to the abandonment of the time and the place; but
For with little external to constrain us, the innermost necessities in our
Fourth-of-July crowd.  Their appearance is generally hailed with delight by
French Sailor Merry-mad!  Hold up thy hoop, Pip, till I jump through it!
From hand to hand, the buckets went in the deepest silence, only broken by
Golden Inn.  Of those fine cavaliers, the young Dons, Pedro and Sebastian,
Goney that another
Good night --good night! ( waving his hand, he moves from the window.)
Grand Canal furnishes the sole transition between quietly reaping in a
Greenland Whale which the first syllable of the word literally expresses.  In
Greenland Whale; the Black Whale; the Great Whale; the True Whale; the Right
Greenland-men were; yet that disadvantage is greatly counterbalanced by the
Hand it me.  Why, now, this pewter had run brimming again, wer't not thou St.
Hark ye, Cabaco, there is somebody down in the after-hold that has not yet
He lived in the world, as the last of the Grisly Bears lived in settled
He paused: and then pausing no more, made good his word, spite of Steelkilt's
He would say the most terrific things to his crew, in a tone so strangely
Heaven itself seemed to step in to take out of his hands into its own the
Heaven, when the white fowl flew to join the wing-folding, the invoking, and
Here you are, Pip; and there's the windlass-bitts; up you mount!  Now, boys!
High times indeed, if whaling captains were wheeled about the water on castors
His oil is much like that of the common porpoise.  Beyond the DUODECIMO, this
How the three pines shake!  Pines are the hardest sort of tree to live when
However contracted, that definition is the result of expanded meditation.  A
However, nothing dispirits, and nothing seems worth while disputing.  He bolts
I am aware that down to the present time, the fish styled Lamatins and
I might find there; then ascending a little way further, and throwing a lazy
I must help him to it.  Will I, nill I, the ineffable thing has tied me to
I proceed. --Now, gentlemen, so suddenly perceiving the snowy whale within
I take it --the conclusion aimed at will naturally follow of itself.  First: I
I take it very ill of him that he should so utterly ignore that case-bottle,
I think I have heard you say that of all whalemen you ever met, our chief
I've willed, I'll do!  They think me mad --Starbuck does; but I'm demoniac, I
I, when they had dragged me, the last man, to the deck, and I was still
I. ( Grampus). --Though this fish, whose loud sonorous breathing, or rather
In shape, he differs in some degree from the Huzza Porpoise, being of a less
In this one matter, Ahab seemed no exception to most American whale captains,
In those days, the captain's authority was restricted to the navigation and
Instantly all was commotion.  The Sperm Whale blows as a clock ticks, with the
Intolerably striding along the deck, the mate commanded him to get a broom
Island days, Queequeg, for one, must certainly have been guilty of some
Islanders not to approach the ship at their peril, took one man with him, and
Islands.  Conversation turning upon whales, the Commodore was pleased to be
It is not probable that this monomania in him took its instant rise at the
It was the middle-watch; a fair moonlight; the seamen were standing in a
Jinglers, you say? --there goes another, dropped off; I pound it so.  China
Johnson never attained to that erudition; Noah Webster's ark does not hold it.
Justinian was Emperor and Belisarius general.  As many know, he wrote the
King Solomon, then there were promise in the voyage.  But in pursuit of those
King's Mills; how much more natural, I say, that under such circumstances
Knife thee heartily!  big frame, small spirit!  All A row!  a row!  a row!
Krusenstern's famous Discovery Expedition in the beginning of the present
Lake Erie, Don; but--I crave your courtesy--may be, you shall soon hear further
Langsdorff, you must know by the way, was attached to the Russian Admiral
Lascar Sailor By Brahma!  boys, it'll be douse sail soon.  The sky-born,
Lazarus lived after his resurrection; a supplementary clean gain of so many
Let it go.  Look!  see yonder Turkish cheeks of spotted tawn -- living,
Macy, the sole historian of Nantucket, stands accountable.  The worthy Obed
Maltese Sailor ( Reclining and shaking his cap.) It's the waves --the
Marmora, after having destroyed vessels at intervals in those waters for a
Martin Frobisher on his return from that voyage, when Queen Bess did
Mediterranean and the deep waters connecting with it.  Even now I am certain
Mediterranean.  I am told, on good authority, that on the Barbary coast, a
Miguel, after at various times creating great havoc among the boats of
Missouri.  And as when Spring and Summer had departed, that wild Logan of the
Moby Dick.  For however eagerly and impetuously the savage crew had hailed the
Moby Dick; those things had gone far to shake the fortitude of many brave
Most famous in our Western annals and Indian traditions is that of the White
Mountains and the Alleghanies.  At their flaming head he westward trooped it
Mr. Stubb! (seethe her, seethe her, my lads!) but never mind, Mr. Stubb,
Nantucket market.  Nantucket market!  Hoot!  But come closer, Starbuck; thou
Nantucket wool after the great annual sheep-shearing; aye, Tashtego, and he
Nantucket, was cruising in the Pacific Ocean.  One day she saw spouts,
Nantucket.  I have seen Owen Chace, who was chief mate of the Essex at the
Nantucketer, with his nondescript provincialisms, as a sort of sea-peasant.
Nantucketer.  Thus ends BOOK I. ( Folio), and now begins BOOK II. ( octavo).
Nay; what thing, for example, is there in the Greenland whale's anatomy more
Nevertheless, so potent an influence did this thing have on those seamen in
Next: how shall we define the whale, by his obvious externals, so as
No: because the mails are very irregular between here and New Guinea.  In
Nor, will the tragic dramatist who would depict mortal indomitableness in its
Nor-Westers, Harmattans, Trades; any wind but the Levanter and Simoom, might
Now, then, come the grand divisions of the entire whale host.  First:
OCTAVO, the Grampus; of the DUODECIMO, the Porpoise.  FOLIOS.  Among these I
On this hint, attempts have been made to construct elaborate migratory charts
Only her lower sails were set.  A wild sight it was to see her long-bearded
Ontario, and Huron, and Superior, and Michigan, --possess an ocean-like
Ophites of the east reverenced in their statue devil; -- Ahab did not fall down
Ordinaire of the French whalemen; the Growlands Walfish of the Swedes.  It is
Others of the sailors joined with them in this attempt, and a twisted turmoil
Over his ivory-inlaid table, Ahab presided like a mute, maned sea-lion on the
Over unsounded gorges, through the rifled hearts of mountains, under
Passion and Vanity stamping the living magnanimous earth, but the earth did
Pedro, looking downwards into the crowded plazza, with humorous concern.
Pequod bearing down upon her boats with outstretched sails, like a wild hen
Perchance ye need it not.  Down lances!  And now, ye mates, I do appoint ye
Pirates and Man-of-War's men, and Slave-ship sailors, cherish such a scornful
Pizarro, this whiteness keeps her ruins for ever new; admits not the
Plain in England; if
Polar bear frightens us with so unnatural a contrast.  But even assuming all
Pollard once more sailed for the Pacific in command of another ship, but the
Porpoise.  To those who have not chanced specially to study the subject, it
Povelson, the superstitious belief in them is, in some vicissitudes of their
Procopius mentions that, during the term of his prefecture at Constantinople,
Procopius's sea-monster, that for half a century stove the ships of a Roman
Procopius, a Christian magistrate of Constantinople, in the days when
Propontis.  In the Propontis, as far as I can learn, none of that peculiar
Protestant of the Middle American States, why does the passing mention of a
Provoke him, and he will buckle to a shark.  I have lowered for him many
Queequeg, the harpoons lie all twisted and wrenched in him; aye, Daggoo, his
Queequeg, while busy at the mat.  As I kept passing and repassing the
Rad were here now, I'd tell him to jump overboard and scatter 'em.  They're
Rad;" and he rose to go aft.  "You don't mean to go a begging to him!" said
Radney had spat in his face.  Any man who has gone sailor in a whale-ship will
Receiving the brimming pewter, and turning to the harpooneers, he ordered
Receiving the top-maul from Starbuck, he advanced towards the main-mast with
Sailor ( Dancing.) Go it, Pip!  Bang it, bell-boy!  Rig it, dig it, stig
Sailor ( Reclining on a mat.) Hail, holy nakedness of our dancing girls!
Sailor Aye; girls and a green! --then I'll hop with ye; yea, turn
Sailor Crack, crack, old ship!  so long as thou crackest, thou holdest!  Well
Sailor Rattle thy teeth, then, and pound away; make a pagoda of thyself.
Sailor Spell oh! --whew!  this is worse than pulling after whales in a calm
Sailors put it on their hones.  Porpoise meat is good eating, you know.  It
Season-on-the-Line.  No possible endeavor then could enable her commander to
Sebastian, rising in his swinging mat of grass.  On the eastern shore of our
Secondly: People ashore have indeed some indefinite idea that a whale is an
Secondly: The ship Union, also of Nantucket, was in the year
Seen in advance of all the other indications, the puffs of vapor they spouted,
Sharks included.  BOOK II. ( Octavo), CHAPTER V. ( Thrasher). --This gentleman
Siberian coast, and purchased by my uncle after bartering away the vessel in
Since the above was written, the statement is happily borne out by an official
Sirs." "The chicha!  the chicha!" cried Don Pedro; "our vigorous friend
So Tamerlane's soldiers often argued with tears in their eyes, whether that
So, too, Venice; I have been there; the holy city of the blessed evangelist,
So, with his ivory leg inserted into its accustomed hole, and with one hand
Soon after, two cries in quick succession on each side of us denoted that the
Southern whale-fishers are not so snugly housed aloft as Captain Sleet and his
Southern whaling.  Nor is the pre-eminent tremendousness of the great Sperm
Spanish Sailor No; Daggoo showing his teeth.  Daggoo ( springing) Swallow
Sperm Whale when beneath the surface remain, in great part, unaccountable to
Sperm Whale, all fish (sharks included) are struck with the most lively
St.  Mark! --St.  Dominic, purge it!  Your cup!  Thanks: here I refill;  now,
Starbuck forget the old man's aspect, when one night going down into the cabin
Starbuck to Stubb; from Stubb to Flask.  It seemed as though, by some
Starbuck, lowly.  But in his joy at the enchanted, tacit acquiescence of the
State-secret come.  Now, in his heart, Ahab had some glimpse of this, namely:
Steady, helmsman!  steady.  This is the sort of weather when brave hearts snap
Steed of the Prairies; a magnificent milk-white charger, large-eyed,
Steelkilt --but, gentlemen, you shall hear.  It was not more than a day or two
Steelkilt and his desperadoes were too much for them all; they succeeded in
Steelkilt calculated his time, and found that his next trick at the helm
Steelkilt had been regularly assigned captain of one of the gangs;
Steelkilt; "no lies." "I am bound to Tahiti for more men." "Very good.  Let
Strength, Cash, and Patience!
Stubb and Flask looked sideways from him; the honest eye of Starbuck fell
Stubb?  Here's a carcase.  I know not all that may be coming, but be it what
Stylites, the famous Christian hermit of old times, who built him a lofty
Sulphur Bottom!  I can say nothing more that is true of ye, nor can the oldest
Swimming round it we picked up the floating oars, and lashing them across the
Sydney men, are so much distrusted by our whaling captains.  Nor does it at
Sylla to the classic scholar.  But this is not all.  New Zealand Tom and Don
Tahiti, five hundred miles distant, to procure a reinforcement to his crew.
Tartarian tiles in some of his profounder divings.  He is seldom seen; at
Tashtego ( with a whiff) A row a'low, and a row aloft --Gods and men --both
Tashtego had an ungentlemanly way of accelerating him by darting a fork at his
Tashtego, opposing his filed teeth to the Indian's: crosswise to them,
Tattoo Land?  Was it not so, O Morquan!  King of Japan, whose lofty jet
That inscrutable thing is chiefly what I hate; and be the white whale agent,
That it was only then, on the homeward voyage, after the encounter, that the
That would disable him; but he has one knee, and good part of the other left,
The air around suddenly vibrated and tingled, as it were, like the air over
The cabin-compass is called the tell-tale, because without going to the
The fetid closeness of the air, and a famishing diet, united perhaps to some
The following are extracts from Chace's narrative: Every fact seemed to
The irons!  take them; hold them while I fill!  Forthwith, slowly going from
The mutineer was the bowsman of the mate, and when fast to a fish, it was
The ship, however, was by no means a large one: a Russian craft built on the
The three mates quailed before his strong, sustained, and mystic aspect.
Then, with every mast-head manned, the piled-up craft rolled down before the
There you stand, a hundred feet above the silent decks, striding along the
There's hogsheads of sperm ahead, Mr. Stubb, and that's what ye came for.
There's naught so sweet on earth --heaven may not match it! --as those swift
Therefore he had not solicited a boat's crew from them, nor had he in any way
These temporary apprehensions, so vague but so awful, derived a wondrous
Though the long period of a Southern whaling voyage (by far the longest of
Though, to be sure, from the small number of English whalers, such meetings
Three cheers, men --all hearts alive!  Easy, easy; don't be in a hurry --don't
Throw yourselves!  Legs!  Legs!  Iceland Sailor I don't like your floor,
Town-Ho's leak seemed again increasing, but only so as to require an hour or
Trafalgar Square; and ever when most obscured by that London smoke, token is
Turk, no hired Venetian or Malay, could have smote him with more seeming
Upon this, Daggoo, with either hand upon the gunwale to steady his way,
Vendome, stands with arms folded, some one hundred and fifty feet in the air;
Vitus' imp --away, thou ague!  Advance, ye mates!  Cross your lances full
Volcano Bay on the Japanese Coast; yet it did not follow, that were the
Voyage among the Icebergs, in quest of the Greenland Whale, and incidentally
WHALE.  As the type of the FOLIO I present the Sperm Whale; of the
Was it not so, O Timor Tom!  thou famed leviathan, scarred like an iceberg,
Washington, April 16th,
We are the lads to hunt him up his whale!  All Aye!  aye!  Old Manx Sailor
Whale anywhere more feelingly comprehended, than on board of those prows which
Whale when, sounding with his head in one direction, he nevertheless, while
Whale, by chance caught sight of him; in the beginning of the thing they had
Whale-ships, generally on a cruising-ground; when, after exchanging hails,
Whale; the Cape Whale; the Leading Whale; the Cannon Whale; the Scragg Whale;
Whaler of Nantucket, was cruising in your Pacific here, not very many days'
What say ye, men?" turning to his comrades.  A fierce cheer was their
Whence he came in a mannerly world like this, by what sort of unaccountable
Whereas, among spouting fish the tail, though it may be similarly shaped,
White Friar or a White Nun, evoke such an eyeless statue in the soul?  Or what
White Whale was seen.  During that long interval Starbuck would ever be apt to
White Whale was to them, or how to their unconscious understandings, also, in
White Whale, more especially the catastrophe.  For this is one of those
Who'd go climbing after chestnuts now?  But there they go, all cursing, and
Why this book of whales is not denominated the Quarto is very plain.  Because,
With a start all glared at dark Ahab, who was surrounded by five dusky
With one foot on each prow of the yoked war-canoes, the Lakeman laughed him
With reference to the Polar bear, it may possibly be urged by him who would
Woods, Captain Butler of old had it in his mind to capture that notorious
[ A burst of revelry from the forecastle.] Oh, God!  to sail with such a
a black night in an open boat, when almost despairing of reaching any
a certain generous knight-errantism in them, still, while for the love of it
a certain royal pre-eminence in this hue; even the barbaric, grand old kings
a chance, watch him; and you will then see the great Sperm whale himself in
a fin; no wondrous feat for Starbuck.  What is it more?  From this one poor
a fourth keel, coming from the windward side, pulled round under the stern,
a great sea-monster was captured in the neighboring Propontis, or Sea of
a high raised voice exclaiming: Whosoever of ye raises me a white-headed
a horizontal spangling sun, shifted and glistened like a living opal in the
a huge, vague form.  Affrighted, we all sprang into the sea as the ship at
a joyful day; and though in other mortal sympathies and symbolizings, this
a ledge; the sail collapsed and exploded; a
a long distance, to those who knew him.  The rest of his body was so streaked,
a man of us turns to, unless you swear not to raise a rope-yarn against us.
a meeting.  There was a circumstance which at first sight seemed to entangle
a negative answer to the question he put.  For, as it eventually turned out,
a pale man, with a bandaged head, arrested them --Radney the chief mate.  Ever
a permanent thing, residing in the open air.  Nor did they lose much hereby;
a phrensy.  "The White Whale --the White Whale!" was the cry from captain,
a poor old whale-hunter like him; and, therefore, all outward majestical
a rapid Dinner, Mr. Flask, follows after his predecessors.  But the third
a row!  Plunge in with ye!  English Sailor Fair play!  Snatch the Spaniard's
a running sperm whale have, in a calm, been transferred to the ship, and
a sailor.  "Why not?  Do you think he won't do me a turn, when it's to help
a silent, superstitious dread; the shrouded phantom of the whitened waters is
a single news-telling sail of any sort; the inordinate length of each
a skewer through their necks; usage pronouncing that they must have no organs
a story." "How?  how!" cried all the young Spaniards, crowding.  "Nay, Dons,
a stupid Teneriffe man, drawing water in the main-chains, all at once
a tyro in the far ocean fisheries --a whaler at sea, and long absent from
a very different thing.  Now, it was plainly a labor of love for Captain Sleet
a weariness and faintness of pondering came over him; and in the open air of
a whale, men?  Sing out for him!  was the impulsive rejoinder from a score
a whaling captain to jeopardize that life in the active perils of the chase.
a year or two later than the last one on her blurred and thumb-worn files.
abhorred white whale, he pitted himself, all mutilated, against it.  All that
aboundingly responded to the old man's ire --by what evil magic their souls
about the open sea on planks, bits of wreck, oars, whale-boats, canoes,
about the safety of the ship, some of the seamen declared that it was only on
about to throw themselves on board an enemy's ship.  But at this critical
about.  For the long absent ship, the outward-bounder, perhaps, has letters
abridged.  At present he ranks simply as senior Harpooneer; and as such, is
accessible coast, or if any other reasonable retreat is afforded them.  It is
accessory and strange glory which invests it in the White Steed and Albatross.
accidentally obtained from the stranded fish; in those days spermaceti, it
accomplishment of that monomaniac thought of his soul.  Now, to any one not
accordance with their singular ways, shoals of small harmless fish, that for
according to specific accounts, he had over and over again evinced in his
account of his being a part owner in her.  So when they were working that
account, said
accountants have computed their great counting-house the globe, by girdling
accounting for their appearance, they were for the time freed from
accumulated associations, with whatever is sweet, and honorable, and sublime,
act, the undoubted deed --there, some unknown but still reasoning thing puts
acted like a charm upon the crew.  Then again, Stubb was one of those odd sort
actually inherent in substances, but only laid on from without; so that all
additional courses over spaces that before were blank.  At intervals, he would
addressed his mates.  In tempestuous times like these, after everything above
addressed to the fancy, why, in reading the old fairy tales of Central
adieu to you, Spanish ladies!  Farewell and adieu to you, ladies of Spain!  Our
adjoining, and fearfully peep out at them through the blinds of its door,
administered in the vernacular.  "But as for you, ye carrion rogues," turning
adoring cherubim!
advance of our bows.  For that singular craft at times evinced by the Sperm
advancing keel.  It was in the midst of this repose, that Archy, one of the
advancing still further and further in our van, this solitary jet seemed for
advantage of his windward position, he again seized his trumpet, and knowing
adventure, so full, too, of honest wonders --the voyage of Lionel Wafer, one
affair.  I care not to perform this part of my task methodically; but shall
affected not to notice him, but unawed, went on with his gay banterings.
affecting the matter presently to be mentioned.  Now, in this history of his,
afraid than the isle fort at Cattegat, put there to fight the Baltic with
aft!  Methinks it pictures life.  Foremost through the sparkling sea shoots on
aft, repeated Ahab.  Mast-heads, there!  come down!  When the entire ship's
after a three, four, or five years' voyage she is drawing nigh home with
after breakfast, Ahab, as was his wont, ascended the cabin-gangway to the
after her screaming brood; --all this was thrilling.  Not the raw recruit,
after it; when again turning the key upon them and pocketing it, the Captain
after ourselves any other apparatus we may beget.  In shape, the Sleet's
after part of the ship.  That is to say, they take their meals in the
after spending his uniform interval there for several successive nights
after, his trick at the silent helm --nigh to the man who was apt to doze over
again; but the whale eluded them, and finally wholly disappeared.  In good
against holy usage for Stubb to precede Flask to the deck.  Therefore it was
against the leaping waves, each man had slipped himself into a sort of
against the rocks with such violence as to cause instantaneous death.  And
against ye unless ye attack us; but till you say the word about not flogging
agencies, fail to enlist among her forces this crowning attribute of the
ago this same plan was adopted by the Bay whalemen of New Zealand, who, upon
agree in all their grand features; nor has there yet been presented a single
ahab and anguish lay stretched together in one hammock, rounding in mid
ahead, the Goney (Albatross) by name.  As she slowly drew nigh, from my lofty
ahoy!  Have ye seen the White Whale?  But as the strange captain, leaning over
ain't the White Whale to-day!  Give way!  Now the advent of these outlandish
ain't those mincing knives down in the forecastle there, men?  look to those
air beneath the feet; while still she rushed along, as if two antagonistic
air; but from few of those lungs could that accustomed old cry have derived
albatross.  So that by no possibility could Coleridge's wild Rhyme have had
alike the full-rigged merchant ship, the armed cruiser of the State, the
alive; it cannot be much matter of surprise that some whalemen should go
all attempts to bale out the boat.  The oars were useless as propellers,
all but her trucks.  But little King-Post was small and short, and at the
all diminish the curiousness of this matter, that to many thousands of our
all for the best.  Let all your crew pull strong, come what will. (Spring, my
all hands were turned to, and, sullenly worked by the moody seamen, the iron
all his hopes upon the one crowning fact above mentioned, however flattering
all inferiors on their guard in the matter of obeying them.  In obedience to a
all my means are sane, my motive and my object mad.  Yet without power to
all predestinated.  I heard not all his talk with Starbuck; but to my poor
all space, in repugnance to our vengeful errand, seemed vacating itself of
all that,
all the more fell for that in his frantic morbidness he at last came to
all the waves were women, then I'd go drown, and chassee with them evermore!
all the wonder.  Captain Ahab, I have heard of Moby Dick--but it was not Moby
all these particulars so that you may understand exactly how this affair stood
all voyages now or ever made by man), the peculiar perils of it, and the
all; but upon making sail to overtake it, once more it disappeared as if it
allusions of his were at times so vivid and life-like, that they would cause
allusions to some kind of whales, yet it is in vain to attempt a clear
almost all whales.  So, call him the Hyena Whale, if you please.  His voracity
along; the boat going with such madness through the water, that the lee oars
also all
altogether to abandon the collateral prosecution of the voyage.  Or at least
altogether, and, then, independent, hilarious little Flask enters King Ahab's
altogether, the remembrance of her cathedral-toppling earthquakes; nor the
always at too great a distance to study his countenance.  He is never chased;
always conveys an idea of hugeness.  But the creatures set down above as
am madness maddened!  That wild madness that's only calm to comprehend
among the frantic crew; when, waving his free hand to them, they all
among the men; till Stubb cautiously whispered to Flask, that Ahab must have
among the strange things bred by the intense artificialness of sea-usages,
amphibious.  but the last term of the definition is still more cogent, as
an agreeable chat.  For not only would they meet with all the sympathies of
an indifferent air concerning Fedallah.  He was such a creature as civilized,
an unseen whale vertically bumping the hull from beneath.  I might proceed
analytic to be verbally developed here, Ahab plainly saw that he must still
anatomy --there, at least, we shall be able to hit the right classification.
anchored the ship as far off shore as possible; loaded and ran out his two
and English in the Arctic seas; it is the whale which the American fishermen
and Flask is the first man up.  Consider!  For hereby Flask's dinner was badly
and aft, especially about the forecastle scuttle and fore hatchway; at which
and all its concerns, the Specksynder or Chief Harpooneer reigned supreme.  In
and all men his descendants, unknowing whence he came, eyed each other as
and all the time indulging, perhaps, in finical criticism upon each other's
and aloft has been secured, nothing more can be done but passively to await
and ash-holes of the earth to man these floating outlaws of whalers; and the
and betake himself where he belonged.  On the fifth morning three others of
and blubber.  Childe Harold not unfrequently perches himself upon the
and bound the sleeper with cords, and gagged him with cords; and shrieked
and by the goat-like craggy guns of lofty Mackinaw; they have heard the fleet
and coat.  On the table beside him lay unrolled one of those charts of tides
and contributes to the daily state of kings and queens drawn by milk-white
and cross-running seas.  Still more strange to see him giddily perched upon
and currents which have previously been spoken of.  His lantern swung from his
and currents; and thereby calculating the driftings of the sperm whale's
and days we voyaged along, through seas so wearily, lonesomely mild, that
and deaths by casualties in the fishery, ever finds a public record at home,
and dented brow; there also, you would see still stranger foot-prints --the
and distinctions of a name; had as much a name indeed as Cambyses or Caesar.
and famous, and most deadly immortal monster, Don; --but that would be too long
and fashions both warp and woof; this easy, indifferent sword must be chance
and fiercely glad and approving, grew the countenance of the old man at every
and finding it sheeted with ice, thrusts his horn up, and so breaks through.
and foot, the still struggling ringleader was shoved up into the air by his
and gashed soul bled into one another; and so interfusing, made him mad.
and hand, backed by a heedful, closely calculating
and her suburban avenues of house-walls lying over upon each other, as a
and horizontal tailed fish must be included in this ground-plan of Cetology.
and large.  I. The FOLIO WHALE; II.  the OCTAVO WHALE;  III.  the DUODECIMO
and last, and the last time distinctly recognized a peculiar sort of huge
and marshals in the van of countless cohorts that endlessly streamed it over
and merchantmen alike, the mates have their quarters with the captain; and
and more ago, the command of a whale ship was
and more than suspects that the joke is at nobody's expense but his own.
and nameless invisible domineerings of the captain's table, was the entire
and passion in the end, it is above all things requisite that temporary
and places in which, on various former voyages of various ships, sperm whales
and portents concerning him, not a few of the fishermen recalled, in reference
and recklessness in Stubb, and the pervading mediocrity in Flask.  Such a
and round the horn, and round the norway maelstrom, and round perdition's
and round upon his head.  Less swart in aspect, the companions of this figure
and savage seas far from you to the westward, gentlemen, is it altogether
and say to himself, how d'ye do?  Partners!  I must have partners!  Sicilian
and shadings which there met his eye; and with slow but steady pencil trace
and shall he escape?  His broad fins are bored, and scalloped out like a lost
and showed the five strangers rowing Ahab, who, standing erect in the stern,
and so at last mount to my ultimate destination.  Let me make a clean breast
and space; like Cranmer's sprinkled Pantheistic ashes, forming at last a
and spotted, and marbled with the same shrouded hue, that, in the end, he had
and stand a look-out there, with the same precision as if it had been day.
and strong.  Give way there, give way!  The devil fetch ye, ye ragamuffin
and subdued and yet somehow preluding was all the scene, and such an
and such as indicated resentment and fury.  He came directly from the shoal
and superb a person.  But, doubtless, this noble savage fed strong and drank
and swallowed it, not without circumspection.  For, like the Coronation
and sweep down the planks, and also a shovel, and remove some offensive
and that's what he went into the after hold for, so often, as Dough-Boy long
and the Holy One that sitteth there white like wool; yet for all these
and the horrid aspect and revenge of the whale, wholly engrossed my
and then, without at all alluding to the shovel, he pointed to three lads as
and though, when the ship slowly glided close under our stern, we six men in
and time himself on his way, as even then not to be wholly without prospect of
and to cries and maledictions against the white whale, the spirits
and vaguely, without the specific details of any certain calamity, and
and worryings, prospects of sudden disaster, peril of life and limb; all
and worship it like them; but deliriously transferring its idea to the
animation into which his unexpected question had so magnetically thrown them.
animosity; and when he received the stroke that tore him, he probably but
announcement of his quest; yet all sailors of all sorts are more or less
announces dinner to his lord and master; who, sitting in the lee
another little item about Gamming which must not be forgotten here.  All
anxious.  Much this way had it been with the Town-Ho; so when her leak was
any already ireful being --a repugnance most felt, when felt at all, by
any mere sailor of the Pequod had a grudge against Flask in Flask's official
any other whale of that species.  But at length, such calamities did ensue in
any respect the mast-head standers of the land with those of the sea; but
any strange sight.  There is Napoleon; who, upon the top of the column of
any time, permitted there.  So that, in real truth, the mates and harpooneers
any?"  But there was none in the forecastle.  "Then I must get some from old
anything empty in her --say, an empty vial even --then, her mast-heads are kept
anything in short but a surrender.  And what was more, they each insisted
anywhere in his boat, he always sits in the stern sheets on a comfortable,
appalled me.  But how can I hope to explain myself here; and yet, in some
appalling of all brutes.  Or, if for any reason thought to be corporeally
appeals with such power to the soul; and more strange and far more portentous
appear in the newspaper obituary you will read to-morrow at your breakfast?
appears.  So that in many cases such a panic did he finally strike, that few
appetites had Queequeg and Tashtego, that to fill out the vacancies made by
approaching to certainties, concerning the timeliest day to be upon this or
archangel wings, as if to embrace some holy ark.  Wondrous flutterings and
are curved upwards, he carries an everlasting Mephistophelean grin on his
are just crossing swords, pell-mell they'll go lunging presently.  Danish
are more than one sort of porpoises, and something must be done to distinguish
are so hopelessly lost to all honorable ambition, as that in their secret
are still entirely incompetent to the business of singing out upon discovering
are these monitions at all unneeded.  For nowadays, the whale-fishery
argument, I take the good old fashioned ground that the whale is a fish, and
arises from the circumstance, that the irresponsible ferociousness of the
arm, like a fencer's, thrown half backward into the air, as if to
around him, and oars and men both whirling in the eddies; one captain,
around him.  And of all these things the Albino whale was the symbol.  Wonder
around suddenly, and, bearing down upon them, either stave their boats to
article commonly known as whalebone or baleen; and the oil specially known as
as a vessel of war readily passes through the Dardanelles, hence a sperm
as cosy as he would standing on a bull's horns.  To be sure, in cold weather
as direful as any that lash the salted wave; they know what shipwrecks are,
as he was by his spasmodic toil at the pumps, for all his first nameless
as he was tucking the coat into his hammock for a pillow.  Twenty-four hours
as if indeed that pallor were as much like the badge of consternation in the
as if to heighten its lustre, and without using any words was meanwhile lowly
as it is a mere envelope, or additional skin encasing you.  You cannot put a
as malicious.  He did not love Steelkilt, and Steelkilt knew it.  Espying the
as much their insufferable foe as his; how all this came to be --what the
as of late the Sperm Whale fishery had been marked by various and not
as publicly narrated on the ship, the whole of this strange affair I now
as ready to change his berth for a boat, and with his bandaged mouth seek to
as seldom or never for a whole twelvemonth or more on a stretch, to encounter
as that, Flask seemed perched at the mast-head of some ship which had sunk to
as the standard-bearer of this forlorn hope.  There, then, he sat, holding up
ascend into it through a little trap-hatch in the bottom.  On the after side,
ashore, and keeled hulls split at sea.  Our captain has his birth-mark; look
aspects, does Nature in her least palpable but not the less malicious
assaults.  More than all, his treacherous retreats struck more of dismay than
assert, then, that in the wondrous bodily whiteness of the bird chiefly
astern from the whirlpool; calmly looking on, he thought his own thoughts.
astronomical purposes: a theory singularly supported by the peculiar
at a sound so strange, long drawn, and musically wild and unearthly, that the
at all tend to tranquillize poor Dough-Boy.  How could he forget that in his
at all; and your identity comes back in horror.  Over Descartian vortices you
at distant times and places popularly cognisable.  Why such a whale became
at home doing now?  Crying its eyes out? --Giving a party to the last arrived
at sea.  The three mast-heads are kept manned from sun-rise to sun-set; the
at such a thought-engendering altitude, --how could I but lightly hold my
at the furthest after pointing her prow for her island haven, that the
at the other end of the boat Ahab, with one
at the same silent hour, it was again announced: again it was descried by
attacked; therefore it was, that those who by accident ignorantly gave
attention to every minute atmospheric influence which it was possible for his
attitude, it was well known, he sometimes dozed.  There was a considerable
aught to do with those mystical impressions which were mine, when I saw
authenticated ones too, where the captain has been known for an uncommonly
authorities, he has always been considered a most trustworthy and
away; for in a whaler wonders soon wane.  Besides, now and then such
away; the winds blew on; the sails filled out; the ship heaved and rolled as
awful silence; and yet at table old Ahab forbade not conversation; only he
awfulness to another mind almost solely consists in this one phenomenon,
awhile, and then slightly shaking the main brace, to see whether it be all
aye, sir, cheerily cried little King-Post, sweeping round his great steering
aye, sir, just through with this job --coming.
back, harpoonwise.  And once Daggoo, seized with a sudden humor, assisted
back-foremost into death's jaws?  Can't you twist that smaller?  said Flask.
backwoodsman of the West, who with comparative indifference views an
bailiff in the market-place!  Nor, in some things, does the common, hereditary
ball of free will dropped from my hand, and I stood gazing up at the clouds
ballroom of it.  Dance on, lads, you're young; I was once. 3d Nantucket
band of whites necessitated, both by night and by day, and so extreme was the
bankrupt baker and a hospital nurse.  And what with the standing spectacle of
banquet at Frankfort, where the German Emperor profoundly dines with the seven
barometer stood, he saw him with closed eyes sitting straight in his
baron of salt-junk, seemingly quarried out of the solid ox.  And if he were
barrels?  And that question once answered, pirates straightway steer apart,
barricade, and striding up and down there, defied the worst the pistols could
basis.  On this rock every one of the whale-naturalists has split.  But it
battle to Moby Dick; such hunters, perhaps, for the most part, were content
be content to produce the desired impression by separate citations of items,
be content with only one more and a concluding illustration; a remarkable and
be done in the case of ships actually foundering at the time.  Such,
be finished by their first architects; grand ones, true ones, ever leave the
be identically the same with those that were found there the preceding
be stripped of that strange imaginative impiousness which naturally invested
be the hated one he hunted.  But if such an hypothesis be indeed
be to lose oneself in such inhuman solitudes.  Much the same is it with the
be visible, this isolated fin will, at times, be seen plainly projecting from
beaked whales; pike-headed whales; bunched whales; under-jawed whales and
bear of the poles, and the white shark of the tropics; what but their smooth,
bear themselves boldly and defyingly enough towards their commander; yet,
bearing for his mark that style upon his back.  From having the baleen in his
bearing the one figure of a snow-white charger; and the great Austrian
beasts, so torn and bepatched the raiment that had survived nearly four years
beautiful thing that eludes him; every dimly-discovered, uprising fin of some
beauty, as if imparting some special virtue of its own, as in marbles,
because, in all my researches, I find none prior to them.  For though their
been divulged, even to the most erudite research; so the hidden ways of the
been isolated instances of the presence of the sperm whale in the
been nurtured by all those agrarian
been seen on deck; and I suspect our old Mogul knows something of it too.  I
been visible at that moment; nothing but a troubled bit of greenish white
before me in all his Nantucket grimness and shagginess; and in this episode
before me.  Well
before the angels, I bowed myself; the white thing was so white, its wings
before the squall comes.  There's white water again! --close to!  Spring!
before them, "the vultures would not touch ye, ye villains!"  At sunrise he
before us a leper; and like wilful travellers in Lapland, who refuse to wear
before.  Ah, ye admonitions and warnings!  why stay ye not when ye come?  But
behind him, so that he cannot even see it, but only smells its wild animal
behind the barricade.  "come out of that, ye pirates!" roared the captain,
behind; so in that broad madness, not one jot of his great natural intellect
beholding these vivacious fish, then heaven help ye; the spirit of godly
being off the mouth of the Rio de la Plata; and the Carrol Ground, an
being the original inventors and patentees), so likewise should we denominate
being, these still drive us on.  The measure!  the measure!  cried Ahab.
belonging to our grand Erie Canal.  You must have heard of it." "Nay, Senor;
belongs to them; and that it is by courtesy alone that anybody else is, at
below, a clamor was heard in the forecastle; and the two trembling traitors
betrayed no such far-gazing solicitudes.  The whales might have made one of
between him and an officer called the Specksynder.  Literally this word means
between the two men.  But there was more than this: the order about the
between them, both of which, according to their direction,  were
billows to windward.  They are the lads that always live before the wind.  They
bilocular heart, their lungs, their movable eyelids, their hollow ears, penem
black.  Daggoo What of that?  Who's afraid of black's afraid of me!  I'm
blindest instinct!  Madness!  To be enraged with a dumb thing, Captain Ahab,
blinding foam that blent two whitenesses together; till of a sudden the boat
blood like a whale.  Ere the cry could go aft Steelkilt was shaking one of
blood was spilled for it.
blood, such a sight would be but a ghastly deception; for again in
bloodshot, and wiping the profuse sweat from his brow.  Now what cozening
bloody hunt of whales.  Gnawed within and scorched without, with the infixed,
blow Moby Dick into
blowing off to leeward, like the confused scud from white rolling billows.
blowing, has furnished a proverb to landsmen, is so well known a denizen of
blown-off Japanese junks, and what not; that Beelzebub himself might climb up
blows!  there!  there!  there!  she blows!  she blows!
blubber-hunters sweep over thee in vain.  Very often do the captains of such
blue morning sea.  Gentlemen, a strange fatality pervades the whole career of
blue, thus giving no distantly discernible token of the movement, though
bluff-bowed and fearless as this mighty steed.  Whether marching amid his aides
board of the whaler we had spoken was this: the wind and sea betokened
board the stranger, had not the threatening wind forbade.  But taking
board.  Ere the squall came close to, the other boats had cut loose from
boat which was hoisted up there, a little above the ship's side.  In this
boat, as it would tip for an instant on the knife-like edge of the sharper
boat, unless maybe to stop the plug-hole with my timber toe.  Oh!  he's a
boat.  now, with the subordinate phantoms, what wonder remained soon waned
boat; it was the darted iron of Queequeg.  Then all in one welded commotion
boats below.  Hardly had they pulled out from under the ship's lee, when
boats were now in keen pursuit of that one spot of troubled water and air.
both parties speak one language, as is the case with Americans and English.
bowline secured to the rail, in which he swung as in a loosened belt.  Few or
boy's business; he might have known me before this; I told him not to prick
braiding something very carefully in his watches below.  "What are you making
brawlers!  Humph!  Belfast Sailor A row!  arrah a row!  The Virgin be blessed,
break the fixed trance of whiteness.  Not so the sailor, beholding the
breathing pictures painted by the sun.  The Pagan leopards --the unrecking and
bred.  Cape of Good Hope, do they call ye?  Rather Cape Tormentoto, as called
brides, the benignity of age; though among the Red Men of America the giving
brisk gale from the northwest sprang up.  An uncommon large whale, the body
broken by the intermitting dull sound of the sword, that it seemed as if this
brooding soul into this unfaltering hunt, he would not permit himself to rest
brotherly love about it at all.  As touching Slave-ships meeting, why, they are
brought out; almost every night some pencil marks were effaced, and others
brow the piled entablatures of ages.  Wind ye down there, ye prouder, sadder
brute; for, analysed, that heightened hideousness, it might be said, only
bubbling from
bucket, will ye, Archy?  what noise d'ye mean?  There it is again --under the
bulwarks of the quarter-deck, and leaning his arm upon the gunwale of the
buoyant self-command, he generally carries his hands in his trowsers'
burn unsavory tallow instead of odorous wax.  Though their blubber is very
burnish a little brighter the noble merit of the poem and the poet.  I
but a buckler.  in good time, though, to his great delight, the three
but a lengthened tusk, growing out from the jaw in a line a little depressed
but do whales have christenings?  Whom call you Moby Dick?" "A very white,
but ears, and no limbs but arms, in these critical moments.  It was a sight
but himself.  Besides, the English whalers sometimes affect a kind of
but immortal (for immortality is but ubiquity in time); that though groves
but noiseless squall of a hornpipe right over the Grand Turk's head; and
but of all sailors, they are by all odds the most directly brought into
but once take the full-forced shock, then mine own electric thing, that had
but one of the captain's more inferior subalterns.  Nevertheless, as upon the
but raging gales is regularly attended to every evening; it has been known to
but so intolerably cold that we were obliged to keep on our fur clothing.  For
but the deadliest ill.
but there again the similitude ceases.  And it is just the same with the other
but to pursue the ship itself, and long withstand all the lances hurled at
but to wonder at it.  Mysteriously jetted into the clear moonlight,
but valiantly facing everything out to the last, literally died at his post.
but was still cruising, if haply it might light upon some token of our
butterfly cheeks of young girls; all these are but subtile deceits, not
by Ahab, with a view to this very complexion of things.  Because, an interval
by her aspect that the stranger vessel was a Nantucketer and shortly bound
by no means the largest of that sort, have been found at its surface.  If,
by no means unobservant of the paramount forms and usages of the sea.  Nor,
by the gods.  Immediately the hammer touched the cheek; the next instant the
by two great contrasting nations, as the Atlantic is; they furnish long
cabin after the squall that took place on the night succeeding that wild
calculated to do us the most injury, by being made ahead, and thereby
calculating mischief, on the part of the whale (many of which impressions I
call him Requin.  I remember the first albatross I ever saw.  It was during a
call upon holy Jonah to back me.  This fundamental thing settled, the next
called for the steward to bring the heavy brass padlock, belonging to the
came an invisible push from astern, while forward the boat seemed striking on
can go.  The subterranean miner that works in us all, how can one tell
can't be, or else in his one case our old Mogul's fire-waters are somewhat
can't see three seas off; tip us up an oar there, and let me on to that.
cannibals --morally enfeebled also, by the incompetence of mere unaided virtue
cannon from the bows; stacked his muskets on the poop; and warning the
cannon upon its own mad mark; so that far from having lost his strength,
cannot easily be gainsaid.  Nor is there any reason it should be.  Of what
cannot now recall), induce me to be satisfied that I am correct in my
cannot sustain
capacity, all that sailor had to do, in order to obtain ample vengeance, was
capitals of Buffalo and Cleveland, as well as Winnebago villages; they float
capricious and unreliable --they live in the varying outer weather, and they
capsizings in the water and consequent bivouacks on the deep, were matters
captain is all alive to the importance of sustaining his dignity by
captain's cabin, and sleep in a place indirectly communicating with it.
captain's commanded. -- 1st Nantucket Sailor Oh, boys, don't be sentimental;
captain's quest, and could he, would joyfully disintegrate himself from it,
captain, having some unusual reason for believing that rare good luck awaited
captain.  "Cross your arms, sir; throw back your head.  Now, repeat after
captain.  "Where are you bound?  and for what are you bound?" demanded
captains, officers, and not a few of the men are personally known to each
captive king; so like a Caryatid, he patient sits, upholding on his frozen
capture of Moby Dick; though he seemed ready to sacrifice all mortal
captured far north in the Pacific, in whose bodies have been found the barbs
care-free license and ease, the almost frantic democracy of those inferior
careless, now, who rules the decks below; whether Louis Philippe, Louis
case, these spiritual throes in him heaved his being up from its base, and a
cashier Ahab.  Nor was there wanting still another precautionary motive more
casks in a line with the windlass, these sea-Parisians entrenched themselves
cassock; and though among the holy pomps of the Romish faith, white is
casually encountering each other in such inhospitable wilds, these twain, for
catastrophe.
catching hold of anything with his hands; indeed, as token of his entire,
cautious comprehensiveness and unloitering vigilance with which Ahab threw his
celerity, were casting loose the tackles and bands of the boat which swung
century.  Captain Langsdorff thus begins his seventeenth chapter.  By the
certain it is, that with the mad secret of his unabated rage bolted up and
chalices!  Bestow them, ye who are now made parties to this indissoluble
chance clue to conduct us to the hidden cause we seek?  Let us try.  But in a
chapter about whiteness is but a white flag hung out from a craven soul; thou
character of the day, does the bare mention of Whitsuntide marshal in the
character, that upon being attacked he will frequently open his mouth, and
charmingly circumstantial account of the then recently invented crow's-nest
chart, with one tithe of such marvellous precision.  Though, in these cases,
chase that white whale on both sides of land, and over all sides of earth,
chasm seemed opening in him, from which forked flames and lightnings shot up,
cheer and howl on his underlings to the attack.  But be all this as it may,
cheerful greenness of complete decay; spreads over her broken ramparts the
chewed boats, and the sinking limbs of torn comrades, they swam out of the
chicha upon his silvery ruffles.  "No need to travel!  The world's one Lima.  I
chicha's very fine; and ere proceeding further I will tell ye what our
children before Ahab; and yet, in Ahab, there seemed not to lurk the smallest
children, boys.  Lay me on --lay me on!  O Lord, Lord!  but I shall go stark,
circular, issued by Lieutenant Maury, of the National Observatory,
circumpolar seas.  BOOK II. ( Octavo), CHAPTER IV. ( Killer). --Of this whale
circumstances is it wise for any maimed man to enter a whale-boat in the
civilized creature resided.  There, headed by the Lakeman, all but five or
claim our discharge as soon as the anchor is down; so we don't want a row;
clanking at intervals through the dreary night dismally resounded through the
classification of the Leviathan, founded upon either his baleen, or hump, or
clearly cut against the alternating depressions of the watery horizon; while
climes, whiteness typifies the majesty of Justice in the ermine of the Judge,
close up to the revolving border of the confusion, and prying into the heart
closely netted, partly rolled from the pocket of the Lakeman's monkey jacket,
cloth was cleared, or rather was restored to some hurried order by the pallid
clothed him with divineness; and that this divineness had that in it which,
clouds of spiritual wonderment and pale dread, in which that white phantom
club hammer which he had snatched from a cask near by.  Heated and irritated
collared, and dragged along the deck like dead cattle; and, side by side,
collated, then the migrations of the sperm whale would be found to correspond
collected front, however pale, and issued his calm orders once again; and
collision forced to turn towards home, and for long months of days and weeks,
color, and at the same time the concrete of all colors; is it for these
color, approaching to olive.  His great lips present a cable-like aspect,
colored and coloring glasses upon their eyes, so the wretched infidel gazes
column marks that point of human grandeur beyond which few mortals will go.
combinations; or, in the case of any one of them detached, such an irregular
combining the speed of the two objects for the shock; to effect which, the
come to help us --never mind from where --the more the merrier.  Pull, then, do
come what will, one comfort's always left -- that unfailing comfort is, it's
come; and in
coming still closer to him, where the Lakeman stood fixed, now shook the
coming up, Ahab, after rapidly glancing over the bulwarks, and then darting
command, now soft with entreaty.  How different the loud little King-Post.
commander's vengeance.  How many barrels will thy vengeance yield thee even
commanding him to do his bidding.  Steelkilt rose, and slowly retreating
commanding the ship in question, is a New Englander, who, after a long life
commodore set sail in this impregnable craft for Valparaiso.  But he was
common pursuit and mutually shared privations and perils.  Nor would
common vitality to which it was conjoined, fled horror-stricken from the
common.  They supposed a sword-fish had stabbed her, gentlemen.  But the
commonly the whale whose distant jet is so often descried by passengers
communities, especially the Oriental isles to the east of the continent --those
community of interest prevailing among a company, all of whom, high or low,
companion-way.  Then opening the slide a little, the Captain whispered
companions, as if fired with revenge for their sufferings.  Again: At all
company were assembled, and with curious and not wholly unapprehensive faces,
company were gazing upon these strangers, Ahab cried out to the
compass at the helm, the Captain, while below, can inform himself of the
competent, could refuse all further obedience to him, and even violently
complete inattention to the tidings, you would think that moody Ahab had not
complete spiritual man any more than mere corporeal superiority involves
completed fabric; this savage's sword, thought I, which thus finally shapes
completely escaped them; to some minds it was not an unfair presumption, I
complexion; or whether he deemed that, on so long a voyage in such marketless
compounded of fun and fury, and the fury seemed so calculated merely as a
comprehended when the mate uttered his command.  But as he sat still for a
comprehensible form.  It was the whiteness of the whale that above all things
concealed beneath the surface, mills round, and swiftly swims off in the
conceivable that this glorious thing is utterly unknown to men ashore! 
conceives an unconquerable dislike and bitterness; and if he have a chance
concentrated whisper to his men; while the sharp fixed glance from his eyes
concluding blow producing a corresponding contrast in the final aspect of the
confidential business with him.  that business consisted in fetching the
consecutive years, Moby Dick had been periodically descried, lingering in
consequently he should have been freed from any trivial business not connected
consider that the mystical cosmetic which produces every one of her hues, the
considerable
considerable a portion of the whole term of your natural life, should be so
considering his monomania, to hint that his vindictiveness towards
conspicuous object.  this fin is some three or four feet long, growing
conspicuously to label him for all time to come?  To be short, then, a whale
constant use among some fifteen thousand true born Yankees.  Certainly it
consternation to every other creature in the sea, but also to be so incredibly
constitution of
contact with whatever is appallingly astonishing in the sea; face to face
contemplative Pacific; yet was he quite as vengeful and full of social
contemptible set, mostly lurking in the mouths of rivers, and feeding on wet
content to recognise him by merely touching their tarpaulins when he would be
continual sight of the snow-howdahed Andes conveys naught of dread, except,
continual stream of Venetianly corrupt and often lawless life.  There's your
contradictory speculations regarding them, especially concerning the mystic
contrary of this has proved true.  In general, the same remark, only within a
contrasting scenery of those noble Mohawk counties; and especially, by rows of
conveniences.  When Captain Sleet in person stood his mast-head in this crow's
convenient closet of your watch-coat.  Concerning all this, it is much to be
conveniently imagine, gentlemen.  Therefore when he betrayed this solicitude
conventional world of ours --watery or otherwise; that when a person placed
conversed with his son; and all this within a few miles of the scene of the
converted from unbelief by a similar fright?  I tell you, the sperm whale will
coolly and adroitly balancing himself to the jerking tossings of his chip of a
cope-stones, and crosses all adroop (like canted yards of anchored fleets);
cordon, extending from one of the fresh-water butts in the waist, to the
cordon, whose post was near the after-hatches, whispered to his neighbor, a
corroborative example, if such be needed.  Lionel, it seems, was on his way
could not find it after searching the hold as low down as was possible in
could scarcely be worked rapidly enough to escape being torn from the
counterbalance any tendency to trip: Ahab was seen steadily managing his
counting-room they suppose to be elsewhere.  While yet the wondering ship's
coupled with the first.  Almost any one must have noticed that all the fish
courageous enough in offering battle to the Greenland or Right whale, would
course of the ship.
course of time, the true nature of spermaceti became
craft, and silently eyeing the vast blue eye of the sea.  Not very far
creature hitherto identified with the whale by the best informed Nantucketers;
creature stands invested in the fleece of celestial innocence and love; and
creatures in his green northern home, so that the strange muskiness he smells
creeping on board the Pequod during the dim Nantucket dawn, as well as the
crew reached the land in their boats.  Being returned home at last, Captain
crew sat motionless on the sea.  Instantly the three spread boats in the rear
crew to be subjected to.  For all these reasons then, and others perhaps too
crew, so officered, seemed specially picked and packed by some infernal
crew.  Entreaties, cuffs, and kicks could not drive them back, so at their
cried the ringleader to his men.  Most of them were against it; but at
cries.  To be sure the same sound was that very moment perhaps being heard all
critical moment or two, in a sudden squall say --to seize hold of the nearest
crooked jaw, and for the jaws of Death too, Captain Ahab, if it fairly comes
crossing the Atlantic, in the New York
crossing the Pine Barrens in New York State, or the equally desolate Salisbury
crossing the snowy Alps in winter); so a watch-coat is not so much of a house
crow's-nest is something like a large tierce or pipe; it is open above,
crow's-nest; but though he so enlarges upon many of these, and though he
cruising-ground itself, even though they are equally long absent from home.
crying out in a quick phrensy of hurry, Down, down all, and give way! --there
cutting and slashing at the bottom; making improvements, I suppose.  If old
cutting each other on the high seas, like a brace of dandies in Broadway;
cutting the small wooden skewers, which when the
cuttle-fish --lurks at the bottom of that sea, because large creatures, but
czarship which there is no withstanding.  Now, if to this consideration you
daily appetites.  For even the high lifted and chivalric Crusaders of old
daily usage, it was observed that she made more water in her hold than
damned!  Pass along that return bucket.  There again --there it is! --it sounds
damned, most subtly and most malignantly!  damned in the midst of Paradise!
damning thing he would have done.  It was just between daybreak and sunrise of
dance over your grave, I will --that's the bitterest threat of your
dangerous deck, manifested the gloomiest reserve; and more seldom than ever
dared not attempt, he snatched the rope and advanced to his pinioned foe.
darkness of that early hour of the morning, the shock was after all caused by
darted straight ahead of the bow, almost seemed as two visible needles in two
darting or stabbing at the whale; when it was observed how often he stood up
dashed against it by the seas, and were at last taken up and safely landed on
day has the original prestige of the Sperm Whale, as fearfully distinguished
day his craft first struck the cruising ground; and Radney the mate was quite
days still preserve much of the ghostly aboriginalness of earth's primal
days that have been spent in each month in every district, and the two
days went by, and not only was the leak yet undiscovered, but it sensibly
death in this shark, and the mild deadliness of his habits, the French
death would be the signal for a murderous mutiny on the part of all hands.
deathful whaleboat's bow -- Death to Moby Dick!  God hunt us all, if we do not
deck, this had not unreasonably awakened a sort of superstitious amazement in
deck.  Lower away there, I say.  Such was the thunder of his voice, that
deck.  There most sea-captains usually walk at that hour, as country
declared to be incessantly tantalizing his boat's bow with its tail --these
decline a contest with the Sperm Whale; at any rate, there are plenty of
deemed our ship some drifting, uninhabited craft; a thing appointed to
deep of the abounding element of air; and through his dilated nostrils
deep sable, yet a boundary line, distinct as the mark in a ship's hull, called
deep, as if the masts were gigantic stilts, while beneath you and between
deepeningly contracted; like the unabated Hudson, when that noble Northman
degree remained unmanifested; through those forms that same sultanism became
deified Nature absolutely paints like the harlot, whose allurements cover
deliberately repeated his intention not to obey.  Seeing, however, that his
delicacy, to call it so, were they governed in this matter, that they kept
delirium at sea was likewise popularly ascribed to a kindred cause.  And so
demanded, he would escape from their clutches into his little pantry
demanding repose he would not seek that repose in his hammock.  Never could
demoniac waves.  By night the same muteness of humanity before the shrieks of
den into the blessed light and air; even then, when he bore that firm,
den, growlingly disappearing, like bears into a cave.  As the Lakeman's bare
departments of natural history become so repellingly intricate.  The right
depend for their profits, not upon fixed wages, but upon their common luck,
depends, and since in the American Fishery he is not only an important
deplored that the mast-heads of a southern whale ship are unprovided with
descried.  Likewise upon the extreme stern of the boat where it was also
descrying the game, gave notice to the ready-manned boats nigh the beach.  But
desire.  He sleeps with clenched hands; and wakes with his own bloody nails
desisted, but still commanded the insurgents instantly to return to their
desolation, and therefore fit roosting-place for their homeless selves.  And
despairing of ship or boat, we lifted up our eyes as the dawn came on.  The
desperation possible, seize the ship.  For himself, he would do this, he said,
destined, a thing of the utmost importance to her.  And in degree, all this
destiny into these unalterable threads.  Meantime, Queequeg's impulsive,
determinate fact upon which to ground a radical distinction.  It is by endless
determinate.  Nevertheless, so well did he succeed in that dissembling, that
deviations, azimuth compass observations, and approximate errors, he
devil are you hurrying about?  Softly, softly, and steadily, my men.  Only
devil fetch the hindmost.
did flask presume to help himself to butter.  Whether he thought the owners of
did his crew say anything to him.  Only the silence of the boat was at
did in the end incorporate with themselves all manner of morbid hints, and
did not last long.  Vehemently pausing, he cried: -- What do ye do when ye see
difference of country make any very essential difference; that is, so long as
difference?  A problem?  Perhaps not.  To have been Belshazzar, King of
different
digestion gobbles down bullets and gun flints.  And as for small difficulties
dignity of an officer, from that moment he had never known what it was to be
dim, random way, explain myself I must, else all these chapters might be
dimly; but the like of whom now and then glide among the unchanging Asiatic
dinner in that same commander's cabin, and straightway their inoffensive, not
dinner-table of invited guests, that man's unchallenged power and dominion of
dip into the watery glens and hollows; the keen spurrings and goadings to
directly from the Latin word for white, all Christian priests derive the name
discovered lounging by them on the sea, without seeking to cultivate a more
discretion.  Emboldened by this, the Captain reiterated his demand to the
disheartening instances where truth requires full as much bolstering as error.
disorderly way they were sprinkled over the entire watery circumference,
dispersed; and Ahab retired within his cabin.
displayed his naked chest with the whole part of his body above the gunwale,
dissembling was only subject to his perceptibility, not to his will
distance, Moby Dick rose again, with some tatters of Radney's red woollen
distant Crozetts, a good cruising ground for Right Whalemen, a sail loomed
distant Flask's boat was also lying breathlessly still; its commander
distant oregon?  no: but here thou beholdest even in a dumb brute, the
distilled to a volatile salts for fainting ladies, the same way that the
distinctions a fiftieth part as available to the systematizer as those
distinguishing feature, the fin, from which he derives his name, is often a
divorced from more kindly associations, and coupled with any object terrible
do not bow and look surprised; you know the proverb all along this coast
do not know where I can find a better place than just here, to make mention of
do not very often occur, and when they do occur there is too apt to be a
do; but gave the captain to understand distinctly, that his (Steelkilt's)
does not feel the
does not take much to heart; probably, because he knows that he has a few
domestic people in the temperate zone only see in their dreams, and that but
domineering and outrageous manner unconditionally reiterating his command;
don't be a fool; forget it all; we are ready to turn to; treat us decently,
done it.  First: In the year
done!  Let me touch the axis.  So saying, with extended arm, he grasped the
done!  The mate there holds ye to it stiffly.  He's no more
dotted all round their banks; here and there are frowned upon by batteries,
down all events, all creeds, and beliefs, and persuasions, all hard things
down heading to leeward, we confidently looked to see them again directly in
down with a whale-pike, calling upon his officers to manhandle that atrocious
down, and I am up again; but ye have run and hidden.  Come forth from behind
downcast and hooded with new-fallen snow?  Or, to the unread, unsophisticated
downright.  In vain!  cried Ahab; but, maybe, 'tis well.  For did ye three
dread in my soul.  A wild, mystical, sympathetical feeling was in me; Ahab's
dreaminess did there then reign all over the ship and all over the sea, only
dropped like light from his erect attitude to his seat,
dry on his shoulders.  And here was Flask now standing, Daggoo with one
duty.  "Will you promise not to touch us, if we do?" demanded their
ear.  We all heard a faint creaking, as of ropes and yards hitherto muffled by
ears, all their martial bones jingling in them at every step, like Moorish
earthquake beneath us.  The whole crew were half suffocated as they were
eight, thou Pip!  thou blackling!  and let me call the watch.  I've the sort
eighteen or twenty years ago Commodore J--- then commanding an American
either wholly or in great part stripped of all direct associations calculated
ejaculates: -- Roll on, thou deep and dark blue ocean, roll!  Ten thousand
else ye swerve yourselves!  man has ye there.  Swerve me?  The path to my
elucidated by the following examples.  First: The mariner, when drawing nigh
elucidating the sperm whale.  BOOK I. ( Folio), CHAPTER III. ( Fin-Back).
emir, now seeing himself all alone on the quarter-deck, seems to feel
emotions, then, the seamen beheld this old Oriental perched aloft at such
emphatically evinced by this; that our wild whale-fishery contains so many of
employs it for a rake in turning over the bottom of the sea for food.  Charley
encircles an imperial brain;
endless plain, and by sailing eastward we could for ever reach new distances,
enhance its value by a notion so strangely significant of its scarcity.  And
enigmatical hintings of the unaccountable Elijah.  Meantime, Ahab, out of
enjoy.  Gifted with the high perception, I lack the low, enjoying power;
enormous creature of enormous power; but I have ever found that when
enough in the earthly make and incontestable character of the monster to
ensigns, that there does not seem to be much right-down hearty good-will and
ensued; while standing out of harm's way, the valiant captain danced up and
entrenchments, always, in themselves, more or less paltry and base.  This it
errors resulting from what is called the local attraction of all binnacle
escaped entirely uninjured.  now, the captain d'wolf here alluded to as
escaped from a felonious visit to a meal-bag.  A most mean and mealy aspect!
escaping from the boats, issued from the shoal, and bore directly down upon
especially when exhibited under any form at all approaching to muteness or
essence sits in bearded state; an antique buried beneath antiquities, and
establishing in all respects the reasonableness of the whole story of the
evanescent.  The permanent constitutional condition of the manufactured man,
evangelist, rides on his pallid horse.  Therefore, in his other moods,
even made significant of gladness, for among the Romans a white stone marked
even the modern Christians ascribe one-half of the worlds; which the ancient
evening at the pumps, there was on this head no small gamesomeness slily
events Steelkilt was a tall and noble animal with a head like a Roman, and a
events hereafter to be detailed, he addressed them in unusual terms, whether
events, he had proved so thus far; but Radney was doomed and made mad, and
events, the whole circumstances taken together, all happening before my own
ever alluring us on.  Nor with the immemorial superstition of their race, and
ever-brimming goblet's rim, the warm waves blush like wine.  The gold brow
everlastingly without any haven in store, or beat that black air without any
every apparent symptom of alarm, he had several times been known to turn
every one of them, almost, as boldly and fearlessly lowered for him, as for
every two hours.  In the serene weather of the tropics it is exceedingly
everything resolves you into languor.  For the most part, in this tropic
evinced by the fact, that originally in the old Dutch Fishery, two centuries
exact manoeuvres which he made were necessary.  His aspect was most horrible,
exactly shaping the thigh board, or clumsy cleat, as it is sometimes called,
example of the Unicornism to be found in almost every kingdom of animated
example, on what is called the Seychelle ground in the Indian ocean, or
exceed ten, and even attain to fifteen feet.  Strictly speaking, this horn is
excellently.  It spiralizes in ye; forks out at the serpent-snapping eye.
except he could contribute some of that information he so absorbingly sought.
except that rocking life imparted by a gently rolling ship; by her, borrowed
exceptionable, there were still additional considerations which, though not
excitement of the moment, the Teneriffe man had instinctively and
existence; only a few of them, comparatively, had knowingly seen him; while
expansiveness, with many of the ocean's noblest traits; with many of its
expectantly poised on the gunwale.  So look the long line of man-of-war's men
experience of all mankind fail to bear witness to the supernaturalism of this
express object as much in view, as in setting out through the Narragansett
external ones already enumerated.  What then remains?  nothing but to take hold
eye Starbuck then looked something as I the other evening felt.  Be sure the
eye open, and sing out every time.  And let me in this place movingly admonish
eye, as that sometimes he is loathed by his own kith and kin!  It is that
eyes lighted up with the stubbornness of life; the subterranean laugh died
eyes out!  Here!  whipping out the sharp knife from his girdle; every
eyes, and producing, at the time, impressions in my mind of decided,
eyes, methought I peeped to secrets which took hold of God.  As Abraham
face.  This whale averages some sixteen or eighteen feet in length.  He is
facing the life and death peril so close to them ahead, yet with their eyes
fact, did you ever hear what might be called regular news direct or indirect
faculties; but under precisely similar circumstances, let him be called from
fain go still deeper into this matter, that it is not the whiteness,
fall into open relapses of rebellion against his captain's leadership, unless
familiar to landsmen have not a flat, but a vertical, or up-and-down tail.
family these whalemen may, in some primitive instances, live together; for
family vault.  now then, thought i, unconsciously rolling up the sleeves of
fan-tails like a split jib in a squall.  Death and devils!  men, it is Moby
fancy such long, dreary, speechless processions of slow-pacing pilgrims,
fantastic towers of man's upper earth, his root of grandeur, his whole awful
far apart latitudes and longitudes, that unnearable spout was cast by one
far manilla; this lakeman, in the land-locked heart of our America, had yet
far mysteries we dream of, or in tormented chase of that demon phantom that,
fast, even there, as he sailed, raving in his hammock.  In a strait-jacket,
fatal encounter, Ahab had cherished a wild vindictiveness against the whale,
fatalities had attended his chase.  But though similar disasters, however
fatality to help him to his monomaniac revenge.  How it was that they so
father.  But Radney, the mate, was ugly as a mule; yet as hardy, as stubborn,
fears of being swallowed up by some dreadful tempest, or dashed upon hidden
feathers to the sky; still beckoning us on from before, the solitary jet
featured in the unbodied air!
featuring blow at events.  Thus we were weaving and weaving away when I started
feeding-grounds, could Ahab hope to encounter his prey; but in crossing the
feeds upon that heart for ever; that vulture the very creature he creates.
feeling of forbearance the sweating Steelkilt could but ill brook this bearing
feeling towards Whale-ships; this is a question it would be hard to answer.
feet should be marshalled among WHALES --a word, which, in the popular sense,
feline thing.  When you think it fled, it may have but become transfigured
fellows the harpooneers.  While their masters, the mates, seemed afraid of the
felt the agonizing bodily laceration, but nothing more.  Yet, when by this
ferocious as continually to be athirst for human blood.  Nor even down to so
few turns along the planks, and, after a grave peep into the binnacle, says,
fields, unrivalled for fertility; by billiard-room and bar-room; through
fiend it was, gentlemen, that possessed Radney to meddle with such a man in
fiery emotion accumulated within the Leyden jar of his own magnetic life.
fifty yards of the ship --forgetful of the compact among the crew --in the
figure.  He has no fins on his back (most other porpoises have), he has a
file-fish, and what not; and the whole posse of 'em are now hard at work
fill the scuttle-butt.  Standing, for the most part, on the hallowed precincts
filled their bellies like Indian ships all day loading with spices.  Such
filling or woof of marline between the long yarns of the warp, using my own
filliping to others.  We sing; they sleep --aye, lie down there, like
fin, or teeth; notwithstanding that those marked parts or features very
final monomania seized him, seems all but certain from the fact that, at
finds himself pulling into the charmed, churned circle of the hunted sperm
fine whales, Hand, boys, over hand!  So, be cheery, my lads!  may your hearts
fire worshippers, the white forked flame being held the holiest on the altar;
fire.  But neither great Washington, nor Napoleon, nor Nelson, will answer a
firmly grasping a shroud, Ahab for hours and hours would stand gazing dead to
first hail is -- How many skulls? --the same way that whalers hail-- How many
first mere mention of the White Whale's name to another ship, Ahab for a
fisheries any lad with lean brow and hollow eye; given to unseasonable
fishermen, mildly eyeing us as they passed, said not one word to our own
fishery there hung a terrible prestige of perilousness about such a whale as
fishery.  In a pirate, man-of-war, or slave ship, when the captain is rowed
fixed purpose is laid with iron rails, whereon my soul is grooved to run.
fixed, vivid conception of those perils, and the frequency with which they
fixed, while the boat's five oars were seen simultaneously peaked.  Boat and
flaky whiteness makes them the transcendent horrors they are?  That ghastly
flames before I give him up.  And this is what ye have shipped for, men!  to
flashing cascade of his mane, the curving comet of his tail, invested him
flinging of the two harpoons; and I think it may have been something more
flog them all round --thought, upon the whole, he would do so --he ought to
flogging him; as some schoolmasters get along in the world by a similar
floor-screwed chair; the rain and half-melted sleet of the storm from which
flowery Nile, he indolently floats, openly toying with his red-cheeked
flowing golden beard like the tasseled housings of your last viceroy's
flows narrowly, but unfathomably through the Highland gorge.  But, as in his
foibles himself.  So, then, we see that of all ships separately sailing the
folder in reading pamphlets.  The Narwhale I have heard called the Tusked
fond of that diversion.  This was the fourth time in my nautical life that I
food; and, also, calling to mind the regular, ascertained seasons for hunting
foot-prints of his one unsleeping, ever-pacing thought.  But on the occasion in
for a pedestal.
for a voyage of considerable length; that is, if it lie along a tolerably
for all these fish, for generally they are the best.  Where any name happens
for any object remote and blank in the pursuit, however promissory of life
for death.  And, indeed, the shock was so sudden and violent, that we took it
for one instant it tossed and gaped beneath the ship's bows like a chip at
for one of them may have received a transfer of letters from some third, and
for out of sight of land, however inland, they have drowned full many a
for shipkeepers -- that is, those not appointed to the boats, by this time
for the White Whale; a sharp lance for Moby Dick!  God bless ye, he seemed
for the final dash.  Nor was Ahab unmindful of another thing.  In times of
for the re-discovery of the Lost Icelandic Colonies of Old Greenland; in
for the world they would have profaned that moment with the slightest
for their lances and other weapons; and with which whetstones, at dinner,
for they are infernal villains on both sides, and don't like to see overmuch
for you, my fine bantam, that wouldn't give up.  Take that gag from his mouth,
forbearance had not the slightest effect, by an awful and unspeakable
foregoing chapter, in its earliest part, is as important a one as will be
foreign seas, and especially on a common cruising-ground.  If two strangers
formed by the intertwisting, slanting folds of large wrinkles.  His grand
forth the mouldings of its features from behind the unreasoning mask.  If man
found almost all over the globe.  The name is of my own bestowal; for there
found bestirring himself in the matter of making thole-pins with his own hands
found gaining once more, there was in truth some small concern manifested by
found in almost all latitudes.  He has a peculiar way of showing his dorsal
found in this volume; but the leading matter of it requires to be still
founder by the way, because his pumps were of the best, and being
four men burst up from the forecastle, saying they were ready to turn to.
four whales as well known to the students of Cetacean History as Marius or
four-and-twenty elders stand clothed in white before the great white throne,
fowl.  But how had the mystic thing been caught?  Whisper it not, and I will
freebooting impressions popularly connected with the open ocean.  For in their
frequented by the Sperm Whale fishermen.  But not all of them knew of his
frequently seen, but never with such emotions as when I beheld the Antarctic
friend, does this sort of thing often happen?  Without much emotion, though
frighten me" --and the Captain drew off with the rope to strike.  "Best not,"
from New Guinea?  Yet I tell you that upon one particular voyage which I made
from Tashtego; and the whales disappeared.  Quick, steward!  cried Ahab.
from a bed that was on fire.  Yet these, perhaps, instead of being the
from all other species of the leviathan, died out of the minds of the whalemen
from his closer vicinity Ahab had observed it.  Every man look out along his
from his head, and stamped up and down on it; then picking it up, flirted it
from such a fiendish man!  They were bent on profitable cruises, the profit
from the Quarter-Deck Eight bells there, forward! 2nd Nantucket Sailor
from the battle if offered.  One of the wild suggestings referred to, as at
from the body.  In the instance where three years intervened between the
from the circumstance that he is chiefly found in the vicinity of that Folio.
from the hold; nor yet the presaging vibrations of
from the horizontal.  But it is only found on the sinister side, which has an
from the men before the mast, and be in some way distinguished as their
from the sea; by the sea, from the inscrutable tides of God.  But while this
frosts of mountains; the desolate shiftings of the windrowed snows of
frugal housekeepers, in the absence of company, and quite alone by themselves,
full of a soft, dewy, distant dreaminess?  Or why, irrespective of all
full of quick wonder and awe!  The vast swells of the omnipotent sea; the
fullest sweep and direct swing, ever forget a hint, incidentally so important
fully acquainted with the ways of the leviathans, it might seem an absurdly
furnished him.  A most imperial and archangelical apparition of that unfallen,
furnishes an asylum for many romantic, melancholy, and absent-minded young
further and more familiarly enlarged upon, in order to be adequately
future investigators, who may complete what I have here but begun.  If any of
gag in death the vital jaw of the whale.  But though the Lakeman had induced
gain the top of the opposite hill; the headlong, sled-like slide down its
gaining ground, Ahab must of course have been most anxious to protect himself.
gaining other pious perquisites by the way.  Had they been strictly held to
gaining the forecastle deck, where, hastily slewing about three or four large
gallant cross-trees.  Here, tossed about by the sea, the beginner feels about
gallantly wave her jewelled hand to him from a window of Greenwich Palace, as
gamesomeness is not in ye.  A well-fed, plump Huzza Porpoise will yield you
gay and fleeting As bubbles that swim, on the beaker's brim, And break on the
general belief among archaeologists, that the first pyramids were founded for
general management of the vessel: while over the whale-hunting department
generations, when the memory of the first man was a distinct recollection,
gentleman, with a brimstone belly, doubtless got by scraping along the
gentlemen and noblemen, my valiant harpooneers.  Disdain the task?  What, when
gentlemen present.  He peremptorily denied for example, that any whale could
gentlemen, after the same meal, take a few turns in the garden.  Soon his
gentlemen, is the inflexibility of sea-usages and the instinctive love of
gentlemen, stole over Steelkilt.  Therefore, in his ordinary tone, only a
gentlemen, the Town-Ho, Sperm
geological stones, with the peculiar mark of his walk.  Did you fixedly gaze,
get out of order.  He knew, for example, that however magnetic his ascendency
ghostliness of repose in that creature, when beheld in his ordinary moods,
giants made or nourished.  But Queequeg, he had a mortal, barbaric smack of
gigantic bowls in a boundless bowling-green; the brief suspended agony of the
ginger-cakes don't ye pull? --pull and break something!  pull, and start your
give it to him!  whispered Starbuck.  A short rushing sound leaped out of the
glances of warm, wild bosoms in the dance, when the over-arboring arms hide
glistening white plaited turban, the living hair braided and coiled round
glittering god uprising from the sea.  Fedallah first descried this jet.  For
gloom!
glories of those primeval times when Adam walked majestic as a god,
go by, and no perspective promise of it to them, and then this same
gods shipwrecked him again upon unknown rocks and breakers; for the second
goes down?  said the Gay-Header deliberately.  And has he a curious spout,
goes the jib-stay!  Blang-whang!  God!  Duck lower, Pip, here comes the royal
going on among them, as they stood with their feet continually overflowed by
gone.  Steward, refill!  Attend now, my braves.  I have mustered ye all round
good conduct of the harpooneers the success of a whaling voyage largely
good ground to impeach.  secondly: It is well known in the Sperm Whale
gracious thing he will by whiteness, no man can deny that in its profoundest
grand political maxim of the sea demands, that he should nominally live apart
grandeur not surpassed in any military navy; nay, extorting almost as much
granting all this; yet, regarded discreetly and coolly, seems it not but a
grasshopper!  Long-Island Sailor Well, well, ye sulkies, there's plenty more
graved on it.  On that Ahaz-dial the shadow often goes back.  The Fin-Back is
great empty wooden trencher, while Tashtego, knife in hand, began laying out
great mischief along the spanish land.  but i should not much wonder if, in the
great principle of light, for ever remains white or colorless in itself, and
great, unflattering laureate, Nature.
greatly admire and even love the brave, the honest, and learned Captain; yet
green navies and the green-skulled crews!  Well, well; belike the whole
green the first day i brought ye thence; now worn and wilted quite.  Ah me!
grin at it, and repeat gamesome stuff about spouters and blubber-boilers,
ground-tier butts.  At 'em again!  There, take this copper-pump, and hail
grounds upon which Linnaeus would fain have banished
grounds, where he had at times revealed himself.  But all these seemed only
gunwale, tumbled back to our places.  There we sat up to our knees in the sea,
gush of scalding vapor shot up near by; something rolled and tumbled like an
had been captured or seen.  While thus employed, the heavy pewter lamp
had been holding the ship in the wind to diminish
had done the same thing.  After the ceremony was concluded upon the present
had gone up with the rest; my oath had been welded with theirs; and
had never been.  And so it served us night after night, till no one heeded it
had perished.  That before living agent, now became the living instrument.  If
had received any damage from the shock, but we found that very happily it had
had thought, now, that at your temperate North the generations were cold and
hailed the mate.  Mr. Starbuck!  larboard boat there, ahoy!  a word with ye,
half-formed foetal suggestions of supernatural agencies, which eventually
half-slouched hat he continued to pace, unmindful of the wondering whispering
half-throttled shriek you drop through that transparent air into the summer
hammock, a hearse, a sentry box, a pulpit, a coach, or any other of those
hand for the shuttle, and as Queequeg, standing sideways, ever and anon slid
hand me yon top-maul.  While the mate was getting the hammer, Ahab, without
handful of the Divine Inert, than through their undoubted superiority over
handful, the captain called upon the Islanders to assist him in the laborious
handled Bowie-knives.  Yet was this Nantucketer a man with some good-hearted
handspikes, my hearties.  Captain, by God, look to yourself; say the word;
harbor the conceit, that for those very reasons he was all the better
hard work they underwent, that upon the vessel being ready again for sea,
hard!  Jimmini, what a squall!  But those chaps there are worse yet --they are
hardly help suspecting them for mere sounds, full of Leviathanism, but
hardly tell where they were or what to think; but every one began to prepare
harmless little foible in the English whale-hunters, which the Nantucketer
harpoon in hand, sprang to his feet.  Though not one of the oarsmen was then
harpoon, has effected a complete escape; and, after an interval (in one
harpooneer is of the number, that subordinate is the steersman upon the
harpooneers and seamen, running closer to the excited old man: A sharp eye
harpooneers, I dare say, gay as a frigate's pennant, and so am I--fa, la!
has a Gam, a thing so utterly unknown to all other ships that they never
has been denominated the White Squall.  Nor, in some historic instances, has
has been known, not only to chase the assailing boats back to their ships,
has been made the symbol of the divine spotlessness and power; by the Persian
has no seat astern, no sofa of that sort whatever, and no tiller at all.
hatband, where he always wore it aslant like a feather.  He loaded it, and
hatches --don't you hear it --a cough--it sounded like a cough.  Cough be
have every reason to believe that the food of the sperm whale --squid or
have kept my word.  But I now leave my cetological System standing thus
have laid him down on the lone Nantucket beach, to nurse at his maternal sea;
have long pursued in the Indian ocean, on the Brazil Banks, on the Nor' West
have mercy on this small black boy down here; preserve him from all men that
have no bowels to feel fear!
have personally known three instances where a whale, after receiving a
have shipped for the cruise, d'ye see; now as you well know, sir, we can
have significantly complimented me upon my facetiousness; when, I declare
have touched at a low isle of corals.  He steered away from it; but the
having been inflicted by an unintelligent agent.  Judge, then, to what pitches
he being the only creature from which that valuable substance, spermaceti, is
he broods within his sternward cabin, builded over the dead water of the
he cared not to consort, even for five minutes, with any stranger captain,
he ever exacted, was implicit, instantaneous obedience; though he required no
he had now forborne as much as comported with his humor, the Lakeman paused
he had sanely brought to bear upon any one reasonable object.  This is much;
he had some time before emerged, still slowly dripping from the unremoved hat
he has never yet shown any part of him but his back, which rises in a long
he sat, the sign and symbol of a man without faith, hopelessly holding up hope
he shouted with a terrific, loud, animal sob, like that of a heart-stricken
he swung to the mad rockings of the gales.  And, when running into more
he will pull down and pulverize that subaltern's tower, and make a little
he would run away with rope-walks of line.  Prodigies are told of him.  Adieu,
head of a crew, too, chiefly made up of mongrel renegades, and castaways, and
head on a gun, was thrown out of his cabin!  Lionel then goes on to impute
head to the low carlines; at every motion of his colossal limbs, making the
head was just level with the planks,
head, and the whole of his mouth, which makes him look as if he had just
head; and, as for his strength, let me say, that there have been examples
heads sideways, as the two crucified thieves are drawn.  "My wrist is
heap of dust of it.  Be this conceit of mine as it may, gentlemen, at all
heard Stubb tell Flask, one morning watch, that there was something of that
heard his menial.  But presently, catching hold of the mizen shrouds, he
heard of the name even; and if by chance they should hear of it, they only
heard which denotes the fullest tension of life's utmost energies.  Quitting
hearing of his officers, having sided the furthest to windward, was still
hearken with a childish fire-side interest and awe, to the wild, strange
hearthstone, or aught hospitable beneath that part of the sun; in such
hearts of this my savage crew, and playing round their savageness even breeds
hearts-alive; pull, my children; pull, my little ones, drawingly and
heathen crew that have small touch of human mothers in them!  Whelped
heave did he thereby give to the negro's lordly chest.  So have I seen
heave to, or he would run him under water.  the captain presented a pistol.
heaved and heaved, still unrestingly heaved the black sea, as if its vast
heavy hammer within an inch of his teeth; meanwhile repeating a string of
heedfulness in the fishery; considering that I belonged to this uncommonly
height of a whaleman's discretion?  Certain.  I've lowered for whales from a
heightened by a circumstance of the Town-Ho's story, which seemed obscurely
heightens the effect of that passage in Froissart, when, masked in the snowy
hence not only at substantiated times, upon well known separate
hence, by bringing together two such opposite emotions in our minds, the
her captain was just as willing to lower for a fish that moment, as on the
her headway, he cried out in his old lion voice, -- Up helm!  Keep her off
here I don't.  Fine prospects to 'em; they're on the road to heaven.  Hold on
here include the following chapters: -- I. The Sperm Whale; II.  the Right
here of the peculiar usages of whaling-vessels when meeting each other in
here, thought I, with my own hand I ply my own shuttle and weave my own
here.  Perhaps they were; or perhaps there might have been shoals of them in
here; for you live under the blessed light of the evangelical land.  Only the
high and mighty cabin.  In strange contrast to the hardly tolerable constraint
high, pyramidical white hump.  These were his prominent features; the tokens
high-tide Ganges turned to wind!  Thou showest thy black brow, Seeva!
him a moment, and then said: --"I tell you what it is now, Captain, rather
him as a regular headsman in the hunt --above all for Captain Ahab to be
him from its decks.  The English ship Pusie Hall can tell a story on that
him in particular latitudes; could arrive at reasonable surmises, almost
him in those latitudes; and therefore being very averse to quit them, and
him the Elephant and Castle whale.  At any rate, the popular name for him does
him to burst from it in horror again.  The latter was the eternal, living
him we have a remarkable instance of a dauntless stander-of-mast-heads; who
him--him-- faltering hard for a word, and screwing his hand round and round as
him.  Not only that, but the subtle insanity of Ahab respecting Moby Dick was
him; tows me with a cable I have no knife to cut.  Horrible old man!  Who's
himself before it, you would have seen him intently study the various lines
himself blind at the monumental white shroud that wraps all the prospect
himself by.  At any time it is a strange sight to the tyro to see with what
himself in the end, shipmate?" and going to the mate, he looked at him
himself should toss, with one dexterous fling landed the little man high and
himself was dumb.  What a relief it was to choking Stubb, when a rat made a
himself with a cool, indifferent, easy, unthought of, barbaric majesty, the
himself yawned beneath him, a wild cry would be heard through the ship; and
himself,
himself, he will not get more than three mouthfuls that day; for it is
himself, the chances were Ahab had never so much as noticed it.  Least of all,
himself; particularly as his two comrades would not yield, the one to the
hinted his desires on that head.  Nevertheless he had taken private measures
his arm towards him.  "there are a few of us here (and I am one of them) who
his back, the after-oar reciprocating by rapping his knees in front.  He is
his bold ship sailed down the Thames; when Sir Martin returned from that
his broad back, flaxen-haired flask seemed a snow-flake.  The bearer looked
his cabin, Ahab thus pondered over his charts.  Almost every night they were
his casual stopping-places and ocean-inns, so to speak, not his places of
his congregation.  Not at all; and therein consisted his chief peculiarity.
his crow's nest, within easy reach of his hand.  Though, upon the whole, I
his delirious but still methodical scheme.  But not so in the reality,
his duty to sit next him, while Radney stood
his eye on the Captain, and jerking out such sentences as these: --"It's not
his eyes among the crew, started from his standpoint; and as though not a
his friends, has tasted what it is to be Caesar.  It is a witchery of social
his hammock to view his ship sailing through a midnight sea of milky whiteness
his heavy oaken sword between the threads, and idly looking off upon the
his hidden self, raved on.  Human madness is oftentimes a cunning and most
his hot heart's shell upon it.
his hull hove out and repaired.  Though no small passage was before her, yet,
his hunger, as keep it immortal in him.  Peace and satisfaction, thought
his impious end; but feel that
his jaws is exceedingly valuable.  It is in request among jewellers and
his life on its summit, hoisting his food from the ground with a tackle; in
his life-spot became insufferable anguish; and when, as was sometimes the
his lofty, overscorning carriage.  He was the elected Xerxes of vast herds of
his mates thanked God the direful madness was now gone; even then, Ahab, in
his object have hitherto been spoken of, allusion has only been made to
his old acquaintances on shore but half dreamed of what was lurking in him
his orders, mind ye that.  I heard old Ahab tell him he must always kill a
his own canal, I have received good turns from one of these Canallers; I
his own proper turn, each officer waited to be served.  They were as little
his prey.  Meanwhile, all the boats tore on.  The repeated specific allusions
his pursuers; and from time to time have originated the most curious and
his pursuers; nor is it without conveying some eloquent indication of his
his very eyelashes together.  Meantime, the crew driven from the forward
hissed the Lakeman.  "But I must," --and the rope was once more drawn back for
historical and otherwise, of the fishery, they might scout at Moby Dick as a
history of his own times, a work every way of uncommon value.  By the best
hitherto been designated, is that of the fishers -- Right-Whale Porpoise,
holding that if we call our own children after our own names (we fathers
hole at the next summoning of the garrison; and armed with their keen
holy as the hills. --But the story."  I left off, gentlemen, where the Lakeman
home, he loudly hailed -- Ahoy there!  This is the Pequod, bound round the
home.  As if the waves had been fullers, this craft was bleached like the
homeward-bound whaleman, the Town-Ho, was encountered.  She was manned almost
honor of securing a man who had been fully ripe for murder.  But all these were
hooked fin in swimming, which looks something like a Roman nose.  When not
hopeless task thus to seek out one solitary creature in the unhooped oceans of
horizon, you would have thought him some prophet or seer beholding the
horizon.  But calm, snow-white, and unvarying; still directing its fountain of
horizon.  In that ring Cain struck Abel.  Sweet work, right work!  No?  Why
horizontal burst boiler out of a Mississippi steamer.  As for Fedallah, who was
horns of the male deer are manufactured into hartshorn.  Originally it was in
horrible to him as a real ghost; in vain the lead assures him he is still off
horribles!  I feel funny.  Fa, la!  lirra, skirra!  What's my juicy little pear
horse walks off with a cart.  Again, it is very often observed that, if the
hospitable shore.  The dark ocean and swelling waters were nothing; the
hour like this, with soul beat down and held to knowledge, --as wild,
house; turning inwards for a moment, only to be turned out the next; and, as
hover.  And perhaps, at mid-day, in the fairest weather, with one
however ignorant the world ashore may be of it, that there have been several
however it was, Flask, alas!  was a butterless man!  Another thing.  Flask was
however the general experiences in the fishery may amend such reports as
however transient and immediately forgotten that record.  Do you suppose that
however, where it is furnished with a movable side-screen to keep to windward
hue.  It cannot well be doubted, that the one visible quality in the aspect of
human race itself, giving the white man ideal mastership over every dusky
human recognition which is the meanest slave's right; thus
humming to himself, producing a sound so strangely muffled and inarticulate
humpbacked whale, each has a hump; but there the similitude ceases.  Then,
hunt Moby Dick to his death!  The long, barbed steel goblets were lifted;
hunt that mortal monster in person.  But such a supposition did by no means
hunt, then, the best lance out of all Nantucket, surely he will not hang back,
hunt?  As a general thing, the joint-owners of the Pequod must have plainly
hunted such and such a latitude or longitude this year, say, will turn out to
hunter, even as a white-bearded Mufti in the thronged thoroughfares of
hunters I have now and then heard casual allusions to it.  Thirdly: Some
hunters believe that, could he be closely observed and studied throughout the
hunters were willing to encounter the perils of his jaw.  But there were still
hunters, to whom the story of the White Whale had eventually come.  Nor did
hustings; and leaves the highest honors that this air can give, to those men
i, the wearer, see not its far flashings; but darkly feel that i wear that,
ideality, who happens to be but loosely acquainted with the peculiar
idealized significance it calls up a peculiar apparition to the soul.  But
identify with him, not only all his bodily woes, but all his intellectual and
if
if encountered, should be thought capable of individual recognition from his
if the commonest chance favored, he did not at all fear that his ship would
if this were otherwise, there were not wanting other motives much more
if thou gettest it, Captain Ahab?  it will not fetch thee much in our
ignorance of the entire subject may
ill effect, giving its owner something analogous to the aspect of a clumsy
immensities of the universe, and thus stabs us from behind with the thought
immitigable, and supernatural revenge.  Here, then, was this grey-headed,
implicated, touching the White Whale: taking all things together, I say, I
impossible correctly to classify the Greenland whale.  And if you descend
impossible to prevent its striking against him.  We were thus placed in the
imprecations he shouted out: Aye, aye!  and I'll chase him round Good Hope,
impressive was the cry, and so deliriously exciting, that almost every soul
impunity, both moral and legal, his crew if so disposed, and to that end
imputed to Starbuck's driving on to his whale almost in the teeth of a squall,
in Blanket Bay.  What say ye?  There comes the other watch.  Stand by all
in a good degree continue true to the natural, nominal purpose of the Pequod's
in a hundred would venture a lowering for them.  You may think with what
in accordance with the preternaturalness, as it seemed, which in many
in all sorts of directions, and kicking off his shoes, he strikes into a sharp
in any other waters haunted by his race.  So that Monsoons, Pampas,
in command over his fellow-men finds one of them to be very significantly his
in his art, as the one now alluded to.  But Ahab, my Captain, still moves
in his head.  Beware of such an one, I say; your whales must be seen before
in his oil-jacket, was now calmly smoking his pipe in the rain; Mr. Stubb,
in his palms.  often, when forced from his hammock by exhausting and
in inculcating the religion of rowing.  But you must not suppose from this
in invariability to those of the herring-shoals or the flights of swallows.
in it.  For when they did enter it, it was something as a street-door enters a
in itself, to heighten that terror to the furthest bounds.  Witness the white
in itself.  God help thee, old man, thy thoughts have created a creature in
in less than ten minutes she settled down and fell over.  Not a surviving
in order to be the first of the three, though the last of the ten, to
in our superstitions do we fail to throw the same snowy mantle round our
in quantity, and pretty good for light.  By some fishermen his approach is
in some peaceful valley of Vermont, far removed from all beasts of prey --why
in some respects was over Starbuck, yet that ascendency did not cover the
in some sort revive a noble custom of my fisherman fathers before me.  O men,
in such a prodigious hurry, they run away from each other as soon as possible.
in that bird's nest within three or four perches of the pole.  But if we
in that boat with his solitary knee fixed in the semi-circular depression in
in that of terra firma, wild rumors abound, wherever there is any adequate
in that way, that when he was wakened he could not well withhold the rest.
in the cabin was no companionship; socially, Ahab was inaccessible.  Though
in the case of Nicholas the Czar, the ringed crown of geographical empire
in the first degree.  Had he helped himself at that table, doubtless, never
in the mate; but somehow still smothering the conflagration within him,
in the midst of despair.  Wet, drenched through, and shivering cold,
in the rightly regal and intelligent spirit presides over his own private
in the way of the business we follow; but I came here to hunt whales, not my
in these jaws of death!  In vain we hailed the other boats; as well roar to
in this matter of the whale?  See Stubb!  he laughs!  See yonder Chilian!  he
in this strange mixed affair we call life when a man takes this whole universe
in vain strove to make himself heard without it.  Meantime his ship was still
in which to keep your speaking trumpet, pipe, telescope, and other nautical
in which you will see the skipper parading his quarter-deck with an elated
incantation of revery lurked in the air, that each silent sailor seemed
incapacitated for that, yet such an one would seem superlatively competent to
incarnate in an irresistible dictatorship.  For be a man's intellectual
incarnation of all those malicious agencies which some deep men feel eating in
incensed Radney shook the hammer within a few inches of his face, furiously
inch as he spoke; still earnestly but whisperingly urging his crew; his face
incorporated into this System, according to his Folio, Octavo, or Duodecimo
increased.  So much so, that now taking some alarm, the captain, making all
increasing the distance between.  While in various silent ways the seamen of
independent being of its own.  Nay, could grimly live and burn, while the
indifferent sword, sometimes hitting the woof slantingly, or crookedly, or
indiscriminately designated by all the following titles: The Whale; the
indistinctness.  For we are all killers, on land and on sea; Bonapartes and
individual influence for the time; that man's royalty of state transcends
individualizing tidings concerning Moby Dick.  It was hardly to be doubted,
induce in some minds, as to the natural verity of the main points of this
indulged in mundane amours.
infatuated man sought to run more than half way to meet his doom, after the
infidel sharks in the audacious seas may give ear to such words, when, with
influences were struggling in her --one to mount direct to heaven, the other
influential with him.  It would be refining too much, perhaps, even
inhabitant of the globe; the most formidable of all whales to encounter; the
inhale its fickleness --and when retained
inland Strello mountain in Portugal (near whose top there was said to be a
inlander, Steelkilt was wild-ocean born, and wild-ocean nurtured; as much
instance of three years), has been again struck by the same hand, and slain;
instances even to idiot imbecility they have imparted potency.  But when, as
instances, such seemed the White Whale's infernal aforethought of ferocity,
instant a sudden exclamation was heard that took every eye from the whale.
instinct of the knowledge of the demonism in the world.  Though
insufferable maledictions.  Retreating not the thousandth part of an inch;
intangible malignity which has been from the beginning; to whose dominion
intellectual mastership; for to the purely spiritual, the intellectual but
intended to rear the loftiest mast-head in all Asia, or Africa either; yet
intensely eager eyes gazed off towards the spot where the chase had last been
intensely heated plates of iron.  Beneath this atmospheric waving and curling,
interblending bubbles borne down a rapid stream from the hills.  Pull, pull,
interblending of other threads with its own.  This warp seemed necessity; and
interest and curiosity at the time.  But almost everybody supposed that this
interesting and curious particulars in the habits of sperm whales, the
interests and employment should intervene and hold them healthily suspended
interests to that one passion; nevertheless it may have been that he was by
interflowing aggregate, those grand fresh-water seas of ours --Erie, and
intervals during the passage, he was a raving lunatic; and, though unlimbed
intervals startlingly pierced by one of his peculiar whispers, now harsh with
interweavingly working together.  The straight warp of necessity, not to be
intimate acquaintance.  Like some poor devils ashore that happen to know an
intimation with his twisted hand he warned off the foolish and infatuated man;
into 'em.  Merrily, merrily, hearts-alive.  Pudding for supper, you know;
into a doze, verbally opened their souls to each other in three sentences;
into harbor.  He has a great pack on him like a peddler; or you might call
into some still subtler form.  Ahab's full lunacy subsided not, but
into the bowels of the various leviathans, why there you will not find
into the hands of him who steered the boat --oftentimes a fellow who at that
into the lead-colored waters.  Queequeg and I were mildly employed weaving
into the sea, on the other flank of the whale.  He struck out through the
into unnecessary excitements; you hear of no domestic afflictions; bankrupt
intolerable allegory.  First: Though most men have some vague flitting ideas
intolerably vivid dreams of the night, which, resuming his own intense
intrantem feminam mammis lactantem, and finally, ex lege naturae jure
invaluable life of his ought to be carried into the thickest of the fight.
invariably assumes a horizontal position.  By the above definition of what a
inventor and patentee, and free from all ridiculous false delicacy, and
invested Moby Dick with new terrors unborrowed from anything that visibly
invested in looking-glasses.  I wonder if he'd give a poor devil like me the
investigations have recently proved to me, that in modern times there have
involuntarily lifted his voice for the monster, though for some little time
involve the remotest suspicion as to any boat's crew being assigned to that
inward mould of every outer movement.  D'ye mark him, Flask?  whispered Stubb;
irascible great man, they make distant unobtrusive salutations to him in the
iron part of their harpoons, some three feet long, held, barbs up, before him.
iron, and bronze men; who, though well capable of facing out a stiff gale,
irresistible arm drag?  What skiff in tow of a seventy-four can stand still?
is a spouting fish with a horizontal tail.  There you have him.
is but a peg higher than Flask, happens to have but a small appetite, and
is even that fair play.  Who's over me?  Truth hath no confines.  Take off
is it that upon the sunniest day, if you but shake a fresh buffalo robe
is little of it, and he is seldom hunted.  He is mostly found in the
is never hunted.  I never heard what sort of oil he has.  Exception
is presumed to expand or contract); but never exceeds the visual sweep from
is the present Cachalot of the French, and the Pottsfich of the Germans, and
is there apart from the traditions of dungeoned warriors and kings (which
is under him again.  Yet where is the mariner who will tell thee, Sir, it was
is very discreet and scientific here, yet, for all his learned binnacle
is well known, and from the circumstance that the inner angles of his lips
is wrapped by influences all tending to make his fancy pregnant with many a
is, that for ever keeps God's true princes of the Empire from the world's
is, that however this one-sided horn may really be used by the Narwhale
island, and remain there six days.  If I do not, may lightnings strike me!"
isolation; as utterly to defy all general methodization formed upon such a
it has been believed by some whalemen, that the nor' west passage, so long a
it is absurd.  Some centuries ago, when the Sperm whale was almost wholly
it may, certain it is that while the subordinate phantoms soon found their
it might be to those hopes; nor in the sleeplessness of his vow could he so
it might have been even authority over him; all this none knew.  But one
it must needs be plucked at from the skies, and dived for in the deep, and
it so very unlikely, that far from distrusting his fitness for another whaling
it the Sleet's crow's-nest, in honor of himself; he being the original
it turned out, seizing a large double war-canoe of the savages, and setting
it was not this night in particular that, in the solitude of
it will, I'll go to it laughing.  Such a waggish leering as lurks in all your
it with guineas, one to every three parts of an inch; then, let me tell thee,
it ye pull to, men?  A dead whale or a stove boat!  More and more strangely
it!  Hark ye, lad --fleet interlacings of the limbs --lithe swayings --coyings
it's bad for the digestion!  Take a tonic, follow me! ( Sings, and all
it's not our interest; we want to be peaceable; we are ready to work, but we
it, Flask!  cried Stubb; if I had but one leg you would not catch me in a
it, quig it, bell-boy; Make fire-flies; break the jinglers!  Pip
it, would be inevitably to be torn into a quick eternity.  on this head, there
it.  Well, well, so be it!  Can't be helped!  All right!  Give way, men!  It
it; that the full terror of the voyage must be kept withdrawn into the
it?  To analyse it, would seem impossible.  Can we, then, by the citation of
its blue blandness, some thought there lurked a devilish charm, as for days
its flanks all the coasts of Africa; but to no purpose.  This man and this
its intensity completely overpowered all the rest; and yet so mystical and
its most finished graduates, and that scarce any race of mankind, except
its residuary legatees.  They made a sort of temporary servants' hall of the
its travels; no doubt it had thrice circumnavigated the globe, brushing with
itself accounted an object of great curiosity.  Black Letter tells me that Sir
itself!  The prophecy was that I should be dismembered; and--Aye!  I lost this
jammed in point of time.  Starbuck and Stubb both had the start of him; and
japonicas, and pearls; and though various nations have in some way recognised
jaw they had started as if each was separately touched by some specific
jingle all over like my tambourine --that anaconda of an old man swore 'em in
joke.  There is nothing like the perils of whaling to breed this free and easy
judgment blown, they could not have quivered more; yet still they felt no
just quoted from Langsdorff, that I cannot forbear inserting it here for a
keep the ship free; never mind if the leak should double on her.  In truth,
keyed in him, Ahab had purposely sailed upon the present voyage with the
kill, or change, or shun the fact; he likewise knew that to mankind he did
killed by valiant whaling captains, who heaved up their anchors with that
kinds, presents.  How then?  The baleen, hump, back-fin, and teeth; these are
king's ghost in supernatural distress.  Through its inexpressible, strange
knife in hand, he had but given loose to a sudden, passionate, corporal
knife to the line.  He cut it; and the whale was free.  But, at some
knife!  A ring, a ring!  Old Manx Sailor Ready formed.  There!  the ringed
knowing that after repeated, intrepid assaults, the White Whale had escaped
knowing, and judiciously malicious, as with direct aforethought to stave in,
known as the Trumpa whale, and the Physeter whale, and the Anvil Headed whale,
known but his name.  I have seen him at a distance off Cape Horn.  Of a
known to both American and English whale-ships, and as well a thing placed
known, its original name was still retained by the dealers; no doubt to
knows very well, Captain Sleet, that he was not so much immersed in those
laid himself open to the unanswerable charge of usurpation; and with perfect
lake in which the wrecks of ships floated up to the surface); and that still
lamp in the lantern; then stretching it on a waif pole, handed it to Queequeg
lamps and candles!  not a gallon you burn, but at least one drop of man's
landscape of snows --a colorless, all-color of atheism from which we shrink?
last coming to be linked with the White Whale in the minds of the
last hailed him, and maddened by his long entombment in a place as black as
last loomed into view, bearing right down upon us within a distance of not
last place it was feared the insurgents might emerge, after breaking through
late a time as Cuvier's, were these or almost similar impressions effaced.
latent horror in thee!  but 'tis not me!  that horror's out of me!  and with
latest whaling intelligence from the cruising-ground to which she may be
latitudes and longitudes, does the name of the White Sea exert such a
latitudes and longitudes, pursuing too such a calling as he does, the whaleman
laughed Don Sebastian.  "Proceed, Senor." "A moment!  Pardon!" cried another
leader, each in his own separate soul had suddenly lighted, it would seem,
league.  Ha!  Starbuck!  but the deed is done!  Yon ratifying sun now waits to
leaking ship in a gale off Cape Horn.  Mr. Flask, said I, turning to
lean arms.  And when he would hear Tashtego singing out for him to produce
leap down the crags and drown the villages? --The blast!  the blast!  Up,
least I have never seen him except in the remoter southern seas, and then
least given to that sort of shallowest assumption; and though the only homage
lee scupper-holes.  Now, as you well know, it is not seldom the case in this
leeward.  Our sail was now set, and, with the still rising wind, we rushed
left a deeper mark.  And, so full of his thought was Ahab, that at every
left behind him with the Cape Horn swells, and he came forth from his dark
left-handed man.  What precise purpose this ivory horn or lance answers, it
leg over the top-sail yard, take a preliminary view of the watery pastures,
leg.  I now prophesy that I will dismember my dismemberer.  Now, then, be the
legatee.  It may seem strange that of all men sailors should be tinkering at
legendary record of
legendary times thrown its shadow before it; we find some book naturalists
legerdemain in the powers of frost and air, he, shivering and half
legs!  Pip!  little Pip!  hurrah with your tambourine!  Pip ( Sulky and
length, in obedience to Steelkilt, they preceded him down into their dark
leopard-like look, being of a milk-white ground color, dotted with round and
less wide limit, applies to the solitaries and hermits among the matured, aged
leviathans, being the one first regularly hunted by man.  It yields the
life before our urn-like prow.  But, at last, when turning to the eastward,
life they feel!  The crew, man, the crew!  Are they not one and all with Ahab,
lifted above a whaleman, in that assertion the pirate has no solid basis to
lifted arm furnishing him with a breast-band to lean against and steady
light, but only as an ointment and medicament.  It was only to be had from the
light, it lights not me; all loveliness is anguish to me, since I can ne'er
light, to be sure, but without an object to color, and therefore a blankness
lightning-like hurtling whisper Starbuck said: Stand up!  and Queequeg,
like a quiet ghost with a clean conscience sitting inside the bars of a snug
like a tall misanthropic spear upon a barren plain; gifted with such
like arrows, the eager glances shot, yet the silvery jet was no more seen
like gouty old aldermen in patent chairs.  And as for a tiller, the
like some noted four corners of a great highway, where you meet more
like that chosen star which every evening leads on the hosts of light.  The
like two or three sleepers turning over, now!  Caramba!  have done,
line is running out are pinned over the groove in the bow: when all this was
lines and courses on the wrinkled charts, some invisible pencil was also
lips while meeting.  a brave stave that --who calls?  mr.  starbuck?  Aye, aye,
lirra, skirra!  Oh-- We'll drink to-night with hearts as light, To love, as
literally justified by his vivid aspect, when seen gliding at high noon
little Flask would now and then stamp with impatience; but not one added
little King-Post, who was standing close by; you are experienced in these
little broken by the bodily exhaustion he was temporarily in, he answered him
little bruited ashore, were by no means unusual in the fishery; yet, in most
little inclined to any sort of nervous apprehensiveness touching his own
little is precisely known to the Nantucketer, and nothing at all to the
little of his entering a boat in certain comparatively harmless vicissitudes
little of your vigorous North." "Aye?  Well then, Don, refill my cup.  Your
little over, we cast the lead, and sounded, but found no ground.  The
living experience of living men, the prodigies related in old times of the
locker in the transom, and bringing out a large wrinkled roll of yellowish
lofty spars along the sea-coast, to which the look-outs ascended by means of
long after midnight he would throw himself back in reveries --tallied him,
long in working. 5th Nantucket Sailor What's that I saw--lightning?  Yes.
long lacquered mild afternoons on the waves, followed by the gaudiest and yet
long time I fancied that the sperm whale had been always unknown in the
look ye, Starbuck, what is said in heat, that thing unsays itself.  There are
look-outs at those three mast-heads.  They seemed clad in the skins of
look-outs, while the quarter-deck hail was being heard from below.  Ship
lookouts of a Greenland whaler are protected from the inclement weather of
looks faint; --fill up his empty glass!"  No need, gentlemen; one moment, and
lords it over all below!  Oh!  I plainly see my miserable office, --to obey,
lost off the Azores by a similar onset, but the authentic particulars of
loudly hailed Starbuck, Stubb, and Flask, to spread themselves widely, so as
lovely tail, and sentimental Indian eyes of a hazel hue.  But his
low cabin framework to shake, as when an African elephant goes passenger in a
lower jaw of the mate was stove in his head; he fell on the hatch spouting
lowered her boats, and gave chase to a shoal of sperm whales.  Ere long,
lubber of me for ever and a day!  Then tossing both arms, with measureless
lungs and warm blood; whereas, all other fish are lungless and cold blooded.
lurks the secret of the spell; a truth the more evinced in this, that by a
mad Gay-Header, Tashtego.  His body was reaching eagerly forward, his hand
mad idea, this; that in the broad boundless ocean, one solitary whale, even
madman!  Insufferable sting, that sanity should ground arms on such a field!
magnets; an error ascribable to the horizontal vicinity of the iron in the
magniloquent ascriptions of dominion; and the modern kings of Siam unfurling
magnitude: --The Bottle-Nose Whale; the Junk Whale; the Pudding-Headed
main-mast.  Interweaving in its proper place this darker thread with the story
mainly at Steelkilt's instigation, they had resolved to maintain the
maintaining his legs.  nor is this any very easy matter; for in his rear is
make the great passage southwards, double Cape Horn, and then running down
malice.  Small reason was there to doubt, then, that ever since that almost
malignity, which whale, after doing great mischief to his assailants, had
man can follow another into these halls.  And though, doubtless, some at least
man is elevated in that odd fashion, he has no proper foundation for his
man to remove the shoes from his feet ere stepping upon the quarter-deck; and
man's knife, as he carved the chief dish before him.  I do not suppose that
man; he calls that fun: humph!  I save my sweat.  Old Manx Sailor I wonder
man; this leviathan seems the banished and unconquerable Cain of his race,
managed his steering-oar, and so broadly gaped --open-mouthed at times --that
manned to the last; and not till her skysail-poles sail in among the spires
manner of uncouth names.  But I omit them as altogether obsolete; and can
manner of wild conjectures as to dark Ahab's precise agency in the matter from
many broken-down blacksmiths among her crew; I say, that though the Captain
many naturalists among the whales.  But as these pig-fish are a nosy,
many of them adventurously pushing their quest along solitary latitudes, so
marching from the bosom of his wife into the fever heat of his first battle;
mariner started to his feet as if some winged spirit had lighted in the
maritime approaches to our numerous territorial colonies from the East,
marling-spikes!  Stubb's exordium to his crew is given here at large, because
marvelling how it was that they themselves became so excited at such
mast-head of some luckless disappointed whale-ship, and in moody phrase
mast-headers have before now heard me give orders about a white whale.  Look
mast-heads of one ship to those of the other; yet, those forlorn-looking
masts, as for a moment their hearts sank in.  For again Starbuck's downcast
mat, but the soft soil has slid!  I saw thee woven in the wood, my mat!
match across the rough sand-paper of his hand, when Tashtego, his harpooneer,
match itself must needs be wasting!  What I've dared, I've willed; and what
mate drawing near as he was toiling at the pump with the rest, the Lakeman
mate, Ahab did not hear his foreboding invocation; nor yet the low laugh
mate, Mr. Starbuck, is by far the most careful and prudent.  I suppose then,
mate.  That instant, as he fell on the whale's slippery back, the boat
mates formed what may be called the first table in the Pequod's cabin.  After
mates, and harpooneers, who, undeterred by fearful rumors, were all anxious
matter like this, subtlety appeals to subtlety, and without imagination no
matter of course, in the case of vessels owned in one seaport, and whose
matter, so the whale fishery surpasses every other sort of maritime life, in
matters consequent upon allowing a pig to run at large.  Now, gentlemen,
maty; it's too springy to my taste.  I'm used to ice-floors.  I'm sorry to
may never have occurred to you that a porpoise spouts.  Indeed, his spout is
may possibly be conceived that, in the internal parts of the whale, in his
may possibly seem strange, that fishes not commonly exceeding four or five
me board you a moment --I come in peace."  With that he leaped from the canoe,
me.  As soon as Steelkilt leaves me, I swear to beach this boat on yonder
me; Moby Dick that brought me to this dead stump I stand on now.  Aye, aye,
mealy-mouth spoils all.  Though his entire back down to his side fins is of a
meanwhile advancing upon the still seated Lakeman, with an uplifted cooper's
measure of grog.  But what's this long face about, Mr. Starbuck; wilt thou not
meat as though receiving alms; and cut it tenderly; and a little started if,
mechanically retained between his teeth, at a short distance, followed after
meditation unrelieved by action); that when they stood their long night
meditativeness; and who offers to ship with the phaedon instead of Bowditch
meet the eye of their leader, ere he rushes on at their head in the trail of
memorable historical instances where a particular whale in the ocean has been
men from whom warm words are small indignity.  I meant not to incense thee.
men, disgusted with the carking cares of earth, and seeking sentiment in tar
men, spring!)
mention, that however such a nomenclature may be convenient in facilitating
merchantmen generally; yet, never mind how much like an old Mesopotamian
meritoque.  I submitted all this to my friends Simeon Macey and Charley
metropolitan freebooters
metropolitan superiority over the American whalers; regarding the long, lean
midnight ship with all its shrieking crew.  Thus, gentlemen, though an
midnight-spout had almost grown a forgotten thing, when, some days after, lo!
might be taken to the name bestowed upon this whale, on the ground of its
might merit.  But when Steelkilt made known his determination still to lead
might readily have prophesied it --for when I clapped my eye upon his skull I
might yet by inflexible firmness, only tempered by that common decency of
mighty birth.  No wonder, then, that ever gathering volume from the mere
miles, and more, to sail ere reaching her proper cruising ground.  and if,
miles, and passed a thousand shores, you would not come to any chiselled
mincing knives (long, crescentic, heavy implements with a handle at each end)
mind it well--- if you flog me, I murder you!" "Say ye so?  then see how ye
mind that!  here then, from three impartial witnesses, i had a deliberate
minds of his more desperate hunters were impelled, when amid the chips of
miniature.  BOOK III. ( Duodecimo), CHAPTER II. ( Algerine Porpoise). -- A
miscellaneous hunt; if by chance the White Whale, spending his vacation in
mist still spread over the sea, the empty lantern lay crushed in the bottom
mittened fingers and hooded head he was studying the mathematics aloft there
mixed their before secret treacheries together; and when their leader fell
mizzen had come down; the line tubs were fixed in their places; the cranes
model of his nose." "Damn your eyes!  what's that pump stopping for?" roared
modern ship sing out for a sail, or a whale just bearing in sight.  In Saint
modes whereby, after sounding to a great depth, he transports himself with
mole under the whale's eye, which I had observed there three years previous.
moment paused; it almost seemed as though he would have lowered a boat to
moment to interchange the news; and, perhaps, sitting down for a while and
moment, and as he steadfastly looked into the mate's malignant eye and
monomaniac old man had found the awful motive to his vengeance.  But in the
monstrous fable, or still worse and more detestable, a hideous and
months or weeks as the case might be.  I survived myself; my death and burial
months.  And it is much to be deplored that the place to which you devote so
monuments and splintered crosses.  But thou sayest, methinks this white-lead
mood, thy spirit ebbs away to whence it came; becomes diffused through time
moose; Aye, aye!  it was that accursed white whale that razeed me; made a
more at the pumps every day.  You must know that in a settled and civilized
more be seen.  But even stripped of these supernatural surmisings, there was
more friendly and sociable contact.  And especially would this seem to be a
more loathsome than terrific, to the dumb gloating of their aspect.  So that
more profitably employed, the sperm whale hunters sometimes capture the Hyena
more spacious than the palm of a man's hand, and standing upon such a base
more terrible than all the whooping imps of the Blocksburg?  Nor is it,
more visible, owing to the increasing darkness of the dun cloud-shadows flung
more whales than all the English, collectively, in ten years.  But this is a
more wonderful story of the Arethusa fountain near Syracuse (whose waters
more would he have been able to hold his head up in this honest world;
more.  Now, as the business of standing mast-heads, ashore or afloat, is a
moreover intensified by his delirium, that his mates were forced to lace him
morning, perched on our stays, rows of these birds were seen; and spite of
most American whalemen the mast-heads are manned almost simultaneously with
most abound in holiest vicinities.  "Is that a friar passing?" said Don
most brain-battering fight!  Dry heat upon my brow?  Oh!  time was, when as the
most imminent danger, as this gigantic creature, setting up its back,
most maddens and torments; all that stirs up the lees of things; all truth
most majestic in aspect; and lastly, by far the most valuable in commerce;
most men, yet few perhaps were entirely conscious of them at the time, and
most of the deadly encounters with the white whale had taken place; there the
most significant one, by which you will not fail to see, that not only is
most usual point of perch is the head of the t' gallant-mast, where you stand
mostly, the disastrous encounter between Ahab and the whale had hitherto been
mother's son of ye draw his knife, and pull with the blade between his teeth.
mount to the apex, and sing out for new stars; even as the look-outs of a
mounts the Folio whale's back, and as he swims, he works his passage by
mounts up!  she wearies with her endless hill.  Is, then, the crown too heavy
mouth, the Fin-Back is sometimes included with the right whale, among a
mouthfuls he could keep up the vitality diffused through so broad, baronial,
much more strongly on the imagination of an untravelled American, than those
much more than its length.  Floating on the waves we saw the abandoned boat, as
multiplied the chances that each subsequently encountered whale would prove to
mumbling something about his being willing and able to do what the captain
mundane soul were in anguish and remorse for the long sin and suffering it had
murderous monster against whom I and all the others had taken our oaths of
murderous savage Annawon, the headmost warrior of the Indian King Philip.  I
murderous, convivial indiscretions.  Alas!  Dough-Boy!  hard fares the white
murmured Ahab, gazing over into the water.  There seemed but little in the
muskiness --why will he start, snort, and with bursting eyes paw the ground in
must have been that, in Ahab's case, yielding up all his thoughts and fancies
mutely reckoning the latitude on the smooth, medallion-shaped tablet,
mutineer made a tremulous motion of his cramped jaws, and then painfully
my frock, here goes a cool, collected dive at death and destruction, and the
my good boys, said Starbuck, in the lowest possible but intensest
myself, have known three instances similar to this; that is in two of them I
nailed cleats, something as fowls go upstairs in a hen-house.  A few years
nameless, interior volition, he would fain have shocked into them the same
narrating to them some specific example of this two-fold enormousness, they
narrative in this book; and, indeed, as indirectly touching one or two very
narrow-flowing monomania, not one jot of Ahab's broad madness had been left
natives of the Manillas; --a race notorious for a certain diabolism of
naturalists; the Greenland Whale of the English Whalemen; the Baliene
naturally grow out of the very body of all surprising terrible events, --as the
nature and long habituation far too wedded to a fiery whaleman's ways,
nature.  From certain cloistered old authors I have gathered that this same
naught.  Though in many natural objects, whiteness refiningly enhances
neatness in seamen; some of whom would not willingly drown without first
necessity, and sideways in its motions directed by free will, though thus
needs a definition, and should be incorporated into the Lexicon.  With that
negro, stooping a little, presented his flat palm to Flask's foot, and then
neither ship nor boat to be seen.  Give way, men, whispered Starbuck, drawing
nest of his, he tells us that he always had a rifle with him (also fixed in
neutral.  All night a wide-awake watch was kept by all the officers, forward
never fail!  While the bold harpooneer is striking the whale!  Mate's Voice
never given on ship-board except in some extraordinary case.  Send everybody
never tempted it since.  At this day Captain Pollard is a resident of
never!  But some time after, I learned that goney was some seaman's name for
nevertheless, strange to say, Ahab never forbade him.  And had Flask helped
next door to you; under the long-flung shadow, and the snug patronizing lee
night-women, that beat head-winds round corners.  O Christ!  to think of the
no gazettes; extras with startling accounts of commonplaces never delude you
no means incapable of swaying him.  To accomplish his object Ahab must use
no words were spoken; and the silent ship, as if manned by painted sailors in
noble negro to every roll of the sea harmoniously rolled his fine form.  On
nobler than the rider.  Though truly vivacious, tumultuous, ostentatious
nominally included in the census of Christendom, he was still an alien to it.
nominally lived there; still, being anything but sedentary in their habits,
nostrils, he has inhaled it in his lungs.  Starbuck now is mine; cannot
not alter her tides and her seasons for that.  Meanwhile Stubb, the third mate,
not but occasionally awaken in any man's soul some alarm, there was another
not create any unsubduable excitement in the forecastle.  But be all this as
not gregarious.  He seems a whale-hater, as some men are man-haters.  Very
not lively about it, if he did not go with a nimble hop-skip-and-jump, then
not so much the fear of striking hidden rocks, as the fear of that hideous
not the dead man's ghost encountering
not the fierce-fanged tiger in his heraldic coat can so stagger courage as the
not wholly lodged in the person now called the captain, but was divided
not yet have we solved the incantation of this whiteness, and learned why it
nothing but the charnel-house within; and when we proceed further, and
nothing without corresponding breadth.  Merely make a spread angle of two
now far remote vessel; and some of those letters may be for the people of the
now half-revolving in his pivot-hole, with one hand reaching high up a shroud,
now long dissemble; in some sort, did still.  But that thing of his
now menacing them with a pistol in each hand, just brought to him by the
now!"  And with that the pump clanged like fifty fire-engines; the men tossed
now, touching the Black Fish, so called, because blackness is the rule among
noways more significantly manifested than in his superlative sense and
number --leaving on deck some twenty or more, who thus far had remained
oar.  Lay back!  addressing his crew.  There! --there! --there again!  There
oars!  cried Starbuck.  Thou, Queequeg, stand up!  Nimbly springing up on
oarsman's hair, and hold on there like grim death.
objects, man, are but as pasteboard masks.  But in each event --in the living
obligations to observe all whale-ships' standing orders, Keep your weather
oblong spots of black.  His oil is very superior, clear and fine; but there
obscure background (for few men's courage is proof against protracted
observation, even upon so neutral a topic as the weather.  No!  And when
observed in him, and particularly his solicitude in having an extra coat of
obtained.  All his peculiarities will, in many other places, be enlarged upon.
obviously seem better adapted to afford the basis for a regular system of
occasion, I felt all the easier; a stone was rolled away from my heart.
occasion, and the captain, having no
occasionally put, and which are duly answered at the time.  Some two years
occasions --if so it had been that, by the process of hailing, he had obtained
ocean at his feet for the visible image of that deep, blue, bottomless soul,
ocean like our Atlantic, for example, some skippers think little of pumping
ocean.  The wind increased to a howl; the waves dashed their bucklers
odd sort of wayward mood I am speaking of, comes over a man only in some time
of Flask to that whale, as he called the fictitious monster which he
of Moby Dick.  To some the general interest in the White Whale was now wildly
of Pegu placing the title Lord of the White Elephants above all their other
of a leg, yet such vital strength yet lurked in his Egyptian chest, and was
of all her other perils, the Town-Ho still maintained her mast-heads, and
of all hopes of cash --aye, cash.  They may scorn cash now; but let some months
of all that.  Now, gentlemen, in square-sail brigs and three-masted ships,
of an audacious mariner as any.  And for Radney, though in his infancy he may
of ancient Dampier's old chums --I found a little matter set down so like that
of annihilation, when beholding the white depths of the milky way?  Or is it,
of churches.  For by some curious fatality, as it is often noted of your
of clubbed voices.
of command.  Moreover, when the four boats were lowered, the mate's got the
of common occurrence in this kind of life; considering that at the
of condescension or in terrorem, or otherwise; yet even Captain Ahab was
of cruising.  Standing in iron hoops nailed to the mast, they swayed and
of each other's villanous likenesses.  But look at the godly, honest,
of extreme tribulation; it comes in the very midst of his earnestness, so
of harpoons darted in the Greenland seas.  Nor is it to be gainsaid, that in
of his heart.  He was in Radney the chief mate's watch; and as if the
of his own touching all that matter.  Until Cabaco's published discovery, the
of humorists, whose jollity is sometimes so curiously ambiguous, as to put
of inflamed, distracted fury the
of it here, and frankly admit that I kept but sorry guard.  With the problem
of it with his pike, sought to prick out the object of his resentment.  But
of its fleshly tabernacle, and cannot freely move about in it, nor even move
of latitude by five degrees of longitude; perpendicularly through each of
of many other instances from persons whose veracity in the matter there is no
of mouth for that --the hogshead mouth.  So, so, ( thrusts his head down the
of nearly two years, often endangered by serpents, savages, tigers, poisonous
of officers, a class unknown of course in any other marine than the
of one part of their sacred vesture, the alb or tunic, worn beneath the
of plumage.  I cannot tell, can only hint, the things that darted through me
of seven of his former associates, and stung by the mocking voice that had
of spears should be planted in his flanks, he would still swim away unharmed;
of the Glacier, which was the name of Captain Sleet's good craft.  He called
of the Pequod might more properly be said to have lived out of the cabin than
of the ages; so that for the millionth time we say amen with Solomon --Verily
of the boat will often go far to topple him, because length of foundation is
of the boat's bottom, the Lakeman had slackened the line, so as to drop
of the boat.  Suddenly Queequeg started to his feet, hollowing his hand to his
of the chase, for the sake of being near the scene of action and giving his
of the company.  "In the name of all us Limeese, I but desire to express to
of the frantic thing, of which, for the time, it was no longer an integral.
of the general perils of the grand fishery, yet they have nothing like a
of the hull and tow it home.  The fact is, boys, that sword-fish only began
of the imaginative impressions about to be presented may have been shared by
of the port, does she altogether relinquish the hope of capturing one whale
of the quarter-deck, they were careful not to speak or rustle their feet.
of the sacred White Dog was by far the holiest festival of their theology,
of the sperm whale.  Besides, when making a passage from one feeding-ground to
of the two traitors, till they yelled no more, but lifelessly hung their
of the universe revolving in me, how could I--being left completely to myself
of the whales bodily, in their entire liberal volume, and boldly sort them
of the white belt of wampum was the deepest pledge of honor; though in many
of their wonder; and so what with all this and Stubb's confident way of
of these moonlight nights, it was his wont to mount to the main-mast head,
of three hundred and sixty-five days and nights was before him; an interval
of uncertain, fugitive, half-fabulous whales, which, as an American
of unknown regions.  Meanwhile, the whale he had struck must also have been on
of unusual adventures as a sea-captain, this day resides in the village of
of us.  Hoe corn when you may, I say.  All legs go to harvest soon.  Ah!  here
of which had had a death by a whale, some of them more than one, and three
of which was larger than the ship itself, lay almost at the surface of the
of yore; for long allured by the perfidious silences that before had attended
of your head in a hard gale.  Being fixed on the summit of the mast, you
off the stray narwhales, or vagrant sea unicorns infesting those waters; for
officer in the boat, but under certain circumstances (night watches on a
officer of the deck happen to forget his duty in that respect, the
oft seen from the palmy beach of Ombay?  Was it not so, O New Zealand Jack!
often before have noticed a similar sight, yet, to any monomaniac man, the
often happen.  Mr. Stubb, said I, turning to that worthy, who, buttoned up
often with blind rage, as with wilful, deliberate designs of destruction to
oftentimes hard to induce long practised Right whalemen to embark in the
oftentimes pass on without so much as a single word of recognition, mutually
oil.  No: the reason was this: that from the fatal experiences of the
old Mogul has fixed him, too.  I twigged it, knew it; had had the gift,
old grudge makes me touchy. ( Advancing.) Aye, harpooneer, thy race is the
old man had ever before evinced.  But turning to the steersman, who thus far
on account of all hands gently subsiding to the bottom.  Nor in the solitary
on bended knees, did likewise present to her highness another horn, pertaining
on board instinctively desired a lowering.  Walking the deck with quick,
on board; at any rate, she will be sure to let her have some papers of a date
on such or such a meridian, a Sperm Whale of uncommon magnitude and
on the hatches and thus spoke to the officer: "Mr. Radney, I will not obey
on the intense countenance of the mate in the stern of the boat, they knew
once sailed between the boots of the famous Colossus at old Rhodes.  There you
one and the same instant of time.  Nor, credulous as such minds must have been,
one good gallon of good oil.  But the fine and delicate fluid extracted from
one hundred and fifty leagues from the Main of America, our ship felt a
one officer to the other, he brimmed the harpoon sockets with the fiery waters
one only and all-engrossing object of hunting the White Whale.  Had any one of
one or two other things, which to me seem important, as in printed form
one.  In sum, gentlemen, what the wildness of this canal life is, is
only one that can possibly succeed, for it alone is practicable.  To proceed.
only people the soul by continually flitting through it.  In this enchanted
only tending to that; free will still free to ply her shuttle between given
only when a leaky vessel is in some very out of the way part of those waters,
operating without medium upon matter, would touch all objects, even tulips and
operations; he made two several attacks upon the ship, at a short interval
opinion.  Here are his reflections some time after quitting the ship, during
oppose me now, without rebellion.  God keep me! --keep us all!  murmured
opposite quarter --this deceitfulness of his could not now be in action; for
or be the white whale principal, I will wreak that hate upon him.  Talk not
or devouring amputations --but fatal to the last degree of fatality; those
or even frustrate it.  it might be that a long interval would elapse ere the
or nothing all day.  To this, Radney replied with an oath, in a most
or right-mindedness in Starbuck, the invulnerable jollity of indifference
or side next the stern of the ship, is a comfortable seat, with a locker
or starlight, as the case might be; disappearing again for one whole day, or
order ye; ye will it.  Cut your seizings and draw the poles, ye harpooneers!
order, nevertheless retain a proportionate likeness to them in figure, yet
orders in person, yet for Captain Ahab to have a boat actually apportioned to
other and more essential particulars.  Thus, the sperm whale and the
other and more vital practical influences at work.  Not even at the present
other at the ends of the earth --off lone Fanning's Island, or the far away
other boats had got fast; but hardly were they overheard, when with a
other circumstances, Steelkilt systematically built the plan of his revenge.
other earthly hues --every stately or lovely emblazoning --the sweet tinges of
other funereal music.  Now, in allusion to the white, silent stillness of
other leviathans might be hopefully pursued, yet to chase and point lance at
other side; --all these, with the cries of the headsmen and harpooneers, and
other storied structures, its neighbors --the Byward Tower, or even the
other world, as of mortal trepidation here.  And from that pallor of the dead,
other, in the matter; and both of them could not be first, for the ladder
other; and consequently, have all sorts of dear domestic things to talk
others to show the number of days in which whales, sperm or right, have been
otherwise than but naturally grieved, and that to the quick, with the
otherwise than hungry, more or less.  For what he ate did not so much relieve
ounce, my boys!  Huzza!  huzza!  cried the seamen, as with swinging
our fault; we didn't want it; I told him to take his hammer away; it was
our hootings, for a long time obstinately clung to the hemp, as though they
our own particular boat was chiefly to be
out for the Captain at midnight.  Thinking murder at hand, and smelling in
out of bodily eyes, when what seemed Ahab rushed from his room, was for the
out of it, without running great risk of perishing (like an ignorant pilgrim
outlaws, even in the lawless seas.  thus ends book II. ( Octavo), and begins
outward homage as if he wore the imperial purple, and not the shabbiest of
over him, he cries; --aye, he would be a democrat to all above; look, how he
over inside of ye --nothing else.  Look to the bucket!
over the fancy, while that of the Yellow Sea lulls us with mortal thoughts of
over the seas, from hundreds of whalemen's look-outs perched as high in the
over you half suspended in air, so wildly and eagerly peering towards the
overbearing of Radney, the mate, a Vineyarder, and the bitterly provoked
own counsel (at least till all was over) concerning his own proper and
own instance they were put down in the ship's run for salvation.  Still, no
paced; so completely possessing him, indeed, that it all but seemed the
packet-tracks.  In the length he attains, and in his baleen, the Fin-back
pale waters, paler cheeks, where'er I sail.  The envious billows sidelong
pallor unrestingly glides through the green of the groves --why is this phantom
palsy.  Nor did the whetstone which the harpooneers carried in their pockets,
panting, and sat himself down on the windlass; his face fiery red, his eyes
paramount importance of his life to the success of the voyage, it is right for
part of every shore the round globe over.  There is no life in thee, now,
part of the ship by the perilous seas that burstingly broke over its bows,
parted by
particular grounds, yet in general you cannot conclude that the herds which
particular preparative heedfulness in Ahab must only be with a view to the
particularly questioned him concerning this passage in Langsdorff.  He
parts above mentioned.  In various sorts of whales, they form such irregular
party, and penetrated far into the interior, where he travelled for a period
past it had been plainly beheld from the three sullen mast-heads.  All was now
paused on their way.  The whales had irregularly settled bodily down into the
peculiar horn being originally mistaken for a peaked nose.  The creature is
peculiarities as distinguished from other whales; for however peculiar in
peculiarities by killing him, and boiling him down into a peculiarly valuable
peculiarity is most vividly hit by the French in the name they bestow upon
peculiarity on ship-board, arising from the existence of the harpooneer class
pequod to visit either of those spots at any subsequent corresponding season,
perceived the stacks of powder-casks heaped up in him and the slow-match
perch at the fore-mast-head, I had a good view of that sight so remarkable to
perchance, the knife grazed against the plate; and chewed it noiselessly;
perfidious allies, who at once claimed the
performing now the office of life-preservers.  So, cutting the lashing of the
perhaps --either from professional inexperience, or incompetency, or timidity,
perhaps aught else.  For, when swimming before his exulting pursuers, with
perhaps expired from out me.  Perchance, too, it would have dropped ye dead.
perhaps, have boarded her --judging by his subsequent conduct on similar
perhaps, in the mere fancying of the eternal frosted desolateness reigning at
perhaps, will it fail to be eventually perceived, that behind those forms and
perhaps.  Though the gregarious sperm whales have their regular seasons for
perils of this new and daring warfare; such men protesting that although
perils; for what knows he, this New England colt, of the black bisons of
period of more than fifty years.  A fact thus set down in substantial history
periodically relieved at them, those six-and-thirty men of his could easily
perishing, --an oar or a lance pole.
person as any fearless, unthinking creature on land or on sea that you can
personified, and made practically assailable in Moby Dick.  He piled upon the
pervading mankind and nature; and every strange, half-seen, gliding,
phantom futures!  Stand by me, hold me, bind me, O ye blessed influences!
phantoms that seemed fresh formed out of air.
phantoms; all ghosts rising in a milk-white fog --Yea, while these terrors
philosophically drawled Stubb, who, with his unlighted short pipe,
phrensies of affright?  There is no remembrance in him of any gorings of wild
pilot-cloth.  And though of all men the moody captain of the Pequod was the
pirate.  Very savage.  He is only found, I think, in the Pacific.  He is
place among the crew, though still as it were somehow distinct from them,
place to sit in, is pulled off to his visit all standing like a pine tree.
plank of her has been seen since.  After the severest exposure, part of the
planks so familiar to his tread, that they were all over dented, like
planting his feet firmly against two opposite planks of the boat, the gigantic
platform.  it is used for catching turns with the whale line.  Its top is not
play herein, jealousy presiding over all creations.  But not my master, man,
playing the devil with his estate, I can tell him.  But he's a simple old
pleasant the mast-head; nay, to a dreamy meditative man it is delightful.
plentiful than billiard-tables, and for ever open--and Corrupt as Lima.
plumbs the blue.  The diver sun --slow dived from noon, --goes down; my soul
pockets; but perhaps being generally very large, heavy hands, he carries them
point is this: The Sperm Whale is in some cases sufficiently powerful,
point is, in what internal respect does the whale differ from other fish.
point, gentlemen, that enraged by the defection
pointed pressure of his ivory limb; and also the anxiety he evinced in
poison, and as such, preparations of it brought immense prices.  It was also
poles, and you cannot stand them up.  Then, again, it would never do in plain
poor pegging
popularize profundities, and all truth is profound.  Winding far down from
popularly regarded.  And as for those who, previously hearing of the White
port to heave down and repair.  I am not superstitious, but I consider the
portentous
posture in his boat, even when pitched about by the most riotously perverse
potency from the contrasting serenity of the weather, in which, beneath all
power and malice at times of the sperm whale.  In more than one instance, he
practically or reliably known to me as a whaleman; and from these citations,
prairies, which this instant they may be trampling into dust.  Thus, then,
prairies; all these, to Ishmael, are as the shaking of that buffalo robe to
precise species this sea-monster was, is not mentioned.  But as he destroyed
precise time of his bodily dismemberment.  Then, in darting at the monster,
predicted interval in any one sign of the Zodiac.  There it was, too, that
predictions from without, as verifications of the foregoing things within.
premature hour of the Pequod's sailing had, perhaps, been correctly selected
prescribed to by both, chance by turns rules either, and has the last
prescriptive province of the boys, if boys there be aboard.  Besides, it was
presence, in the character of Abjectus, or the Slave.  It is not the least
present day, but that these marvels (like all marvels) are mere repetitions
present may be numbered: --I., the Grampus; II., the Black Fish; III., the
presented himself, always to the bravest Indians he was the object of
presumed to help himself, this must have seemed to him tantamount to larceny
previous got abroad among them, though indeed not credited then, this had in
prime redeeming qualities of your man of violence, that at times he has as
primitively pursued in the North; seated on their hatches, these men will
principle or soul in him; and in sleep, being for the time dissociated from
prior to my first learning the events which I am about rehearsing to you,
private revenge upon the man who had stung him in the ventricles
probabilities, and, as Ahab fondly thought, every possibility the next thing
probability would be that he and his shipmates would never again remember it,
probability.  For as the secrets of the currents in the seas have never yet
problem to man, was never a problem to the whale.  So that here, in the real
proceed to put on lasting record.  For my humor's sake, I shall preserve the
process.  Still less is known of the Thrasher than of the Killer.  Both are
prodigious long horn of the Narwhale, which for a long period after hung in
prodigious long upliftings of their legs, those old astronomers were wont to
professed naturalist.  From what I have seen of him at a distance, I should
profession of theirs has any peculiar glory about it.  It sometimes ends in
profession.  be all this as it may, his voice was now often heard hailing the
professional superior; though always, by them, familiarly regarded as their
professions have their own little peculiarities of detail; so has the whale
profit hand in hand!  Aye, aye, I thought as much, soliloquized Stubb,
profound magnetic meditations, as to fail being attracted occasionally towards
progenitors, the builders of Babel, must doubtless, by their tower, have
prolonged abode.  And where Ahab's chances of accomplishing
promises, turn to, I say!" "Look ye, now," cried the Lakeman, flinging out
properly speaking the thickest watch-coat is no more of a house than the
property of three confederate white seamen of that ship, one of whom, it
prophet and the fulfiller one.  That's more than ye, ye great gods, ever
proud feelings; but whereto does all that circumnavigation conduct?  Only
prudent Starbuck's boat; and finally considering in what a devil's chase I was
prudent isle were inclined to
pull, and keep pulling; nothing more.  Crack all your backbones, and bite
pull; never mind the brimstone --devils are good fellows enough.  So, so;
pulled more apart; Starbuck giving chase to three whales running dead to
pulling for dear life, and yet pulling for the mere joke of the thing.
pumps clanged as before.  Just after dark that day, when one watch had retired
punches in the side bestowed by the unseen and unaccountable old joker.  That
purpose, Ahab in all his thoughts and actions ever had in view the ultimate
putting Flask's hand on his hearse-plumed head and bidding him spring as he
qualified and set on edge, for a pursuit so full of rage and wildness as the
quarrel as the backwoods seaman, fresh from the latitudes of buck-horn
quarried out of it!  Spanish Sailor ( Aside.) He wants to bully, ah! --the
quarter-boat, has just been taking an observation of the sun; and is now
quenchless feud seemed mine.  With greedy ears I learned the history of that
question, those dents looked deeper, even as his nervous step that morning
quiescent cash all at once mutinying in them, this same cash would soon
quietly, and asked him for some twine to mend his hammock.  It was given him
race from Adam down; and then, as if his chest had been a mortar, he burst
rain; nor the sight of her wide field of leaning spires, wrenched
raised a pistol.  "Sink the ship?" cried Steelkilt.  "Aye, let her sink.  Not
raised a whale yet.  Whales are scarce as hen's teeth whenever thou art up
raised the ship three feet at least out of the water.  The masts reeled, and
rammed home the loading with his thumb-end; but hardly had he ignited his
ranging ahead of the other boats; a circumstance bespeaking how potent a crew
rapidly two or three times, and then suddenly throwing down his rope, said,"I
rapscallions; ye are all asleep.  Stop snoring, ye sleepers, and pull.  Pull,
rather are ye predictions than warnings, ye shadows!  Yet not so much
rather heavy weather, the ship still continued her cruisings, the mariners
rather oddish," said the Lakeman, holding it at arm's length before him;
ratification of his purpose with his crew, you would have seen him go to a
reached port, desert her in a body.  But in order to insure the speediest end
reached the ears of Captain Ahab or his mates.  For that secret part of the
reaching out his knife and fork, between which the slice of beef was locked,
real phantoms, and asked of the sun and the moon why they were created and to
reality for them to cling to.  And as the sea surpasses the land in this
really valiant men even when aggrieved --this nameless phantom feeling,
reaped away ahab's leg, as a mower a blade of grass in the field.  No turbaned
reasons that there is such a dumb blankness, full of meaning, in a wide
rebelling; and worse yet, to hate with touch of pity!  For in his eyes I read
recklessly standing upon the top of the loggerhead, a stout sort of post
recognised him for one.  He is of moderate octavo size, varying from fifteen
recollection.  Captain Ahab, said Tashtego, that white whale must be the
recur.  One reason perhaps is, that not one in fifty of the actual disasters
refer to piles of old log-books beside him, wherein were set down the seasons
reflections, until day again made its appearance.  In another place --p. 45,
regarded as alien.  Hence, all the smaller, spouting,
regarded as premonitory of the advance of the great sperm whale.  BOOK II.
regularly launched in pursuit of the game, the people of that island erected
related to Ahab personally.  Having impulsively, it is probable, and perhaps
relaxed, and in no instance done away.  Indeed, many are the Nantucket ships
relieved from some curious restraint; for, tipping all sorts of knowing winks
relieved the Indian at the main-mast head.  The sailors at the fore and
remarkable hue, nor yet his deformed lower jaw, that so much invested the
remotest and most sullen waters; his straight and single lofty jet rising
rending, goring bison herds are as present as to the deserted wild foal of the
renown; not only was he famous in life and now is immortal in forecastle
repeated disastrous repulses, all accumulating and piling their terrors upon
repeated; but on the fourth morning a confused wrangling, and then a
reporting even a porpoise.  This vigilance was not long without reward.
resembles the right whale, but is of a less portly girth, and a lighter
reserved for that daily purpose on the upper part of his ivory leg.  From his
reserved, and your Yankee, he does not fancy that sort of thing in anybody
resolved into his own invisible self.  I was the attendant or page of
response.  The Lakeman now patrolled the barricade, all the while keeping
rest, but Steelkilt shouted up to him a terrific hint to stop his babbling
resting in concert: then, how much more natural that upon the illimitable Pine
resting in the top to have a chat with Queequeg, or any one else off duty whom
retain it in that dread expansion for several consecutive minutes.  But I must
retiring nature, he eludes both hunters and philosophers.  Though no coward,
returned to the quarter-deck.  Twice every day for three days this was
revenge he had, and without being the avenger.  For by a mysterious fatality,
rig.  As for Men-of-War, when they chance to meet at sea, they first go
rigging were like the thick branches of trees furred over with hoar-frost.
rigging, and hailed the mortal crew.  There she blows!  Had the trump of
right and left; the whales seemed separating their wakes.  The boats were
right into it!  English Sailor Blood!  but that old man's a grand old cove!
right with that important rope, he likewise takes up the old burden, and with
righted, and was dashed aside by the swell, while Radney was tossed over
rigid pallor of an apoplexy that fixes its own distortions.  I know that, to
rimmed varieties of races and of climes.  They contain round archipelagoes of
ringleader.
rolls swashing 'gainst the side!  Stand by for reefing, hearties!  the winds
romantic isles, even as the Polynesian waters do; in large part, are shored
rooted in the keel, and rising some two feet above the level of the stern
roses, with its own blank tinge --pondering all this, the palsied universe lies
rostrated whales, are the fishermen's names for a few sorts.  In connexion
rotund and jolly girth; indeed, he is of quite a neat and gentleman-like
round him, then he feels
round in the blocks; with a wallow, the three boats dropped into the sea;
round its neck, with the ship's time and place; and then letting it escape.
round the windlass, steadily followed by the mate with his menacing hammer,
round the world!  Round the world!  There is much in that sound to inspire
round upon us, and rend us at last in the remotest and most savage seas.
row-locks.  Soon we were running through a suffusing wide veil of mist;
rumors which sometimes circulate there.  For not only are whalemen as a body
run down; my heart the all-controlling weight, I have no key to lift again.
running up, besieged the cabin door, saying they durst not consort with the
rural boys and young men born along its line, the probationary life of the
sadder souls, to those vast Roman halls of Thermes; where far beneath the
sadly destitute of anything approaching to a cosy inhabitiveness, or adapted
said to have gone by the board, in the dread gale of God's wrath; therefore,
sail for some other harbor.  The ship's company being reduced to but a
sail westward from the eaves of this good Golden Inn.  She was somewhere to
sail, stood away for the nearest harbor among the islands, there to have
sail, the ivory Pequod had slowly swept across four several cruising-grounds;
sailing in the pequod on the present voyage, sat brooding on his brow.  Nor is
sailors had little foreseen it, though to be sure when, after being a little
sailors, but likewise with all the peculiar congenialities arising from a
sails in all imaginations?  Not Coleridge first threw that spell; but God's
salt-sea warriors would rise and depart; to his credulous, fable-mongering
same hue is made the emblem of many touching, noble things --the innocence of
same intense bigotry of purpose in his aspect.  It drew near the close of day.
same that some call Moby Dick.  Moby Dick?  shouted Ahab.  Do ye know the
same time little King-Post was full of a large and tall ambition, so that
same undeviating and reliable uniformity.  And thereby whalemen distinguish
sapling cannot, Starbuck!  And what is it?  Reckon it. 'Tis but to help strike
savage craft bore down on him; and soon the voice of Steelkilt hailed him to
saved the would-be murderer from the bloody deed he had planned.  Yet complete
saw it.  Well, Stubb, wise Stubb --that's my title --well, Stubb, what of it,
saw the monster sailing off with the utmost gravity and solemnity.  Captain
saw the whales struck; and, upon the second attack, saw the two irons with
say dainty.  It seemed hardly possible that by such comparatively small
say that he was about the bigness of a grampus.  He is very savage --a sort of
say, and burst all your livers and lungs!  But what it was that inscrutable
say, that the whale in question must have been no other than moby Dick.  Yet
saying that sweeping the deck was not his business, and he would not do it.
scene at the rigging, he insisted, against the express counsel of the captain,
scene.  Such was the state of his mouth, that he could hardly speak; but
scenery of the Antarctic seas; where at times, by some infernal trick of
sceptical touching the amazing strength ascribed to them by the professional
scimetars in scabbards.  But, though these barbarians dined in the cabin, and
scoundrel, and smoke him along to the quarter-deck.  At intervals, he ran
scuffling was heard, as the customary summons was delivered; and suddenly
scuttle-butt near the taffrail.  In this manner, they passed the buckets to
scuttle.  The second Emir lounges about the rigging
sea charts, spread them before him on his screwed-down table.  Then seating
sea from Nantucket; you're the chap.  Grin away; we'll see what turns up.
sea like three samphire baskets over high cliffs.  Outside of the bulwarks
sea, is this--the first lives aft, the last forward.  Hence, in whale-ships
sea, no more to rise for ever.  Heed it well, ye Pantheists!
sea, the whalers have most reason to be sociable --and they are so.  Whereas,
sea-unicorn's horn was in ancient days regarded as the great antidote against
seaman.  The crew alone now drink.  Round with it, round!  Short draughts
seamen taking their regular turns (as at the helm), and relieving each other
seas far remote from his periodical feeding-grounds, should turn up his
seas.  "I see!  I see!  " impetuously exclaimed Don Pedro, spilling his
season; though there are peculiar and unquestionable instances where the
secret confidential agents on the water of the devil, their lord, whose
secret intelligence from the Deity --mostly swim in
secured there; the whale towing her great hull through the water, as a
securities; fall of stocks; are never troubled with the thought of what you
see in him outrageous strength, with an inscrutable malice sinewing it.
seeing what a faithful friend and comforter it must have been, while with
seek can be established upon testimony entirely independent of my own.  That
seemed scarcely entitled to a moment's thought; the dismal looking wreck,
seemed shuddering fins, and ranged themselves fore and aft with the
seemed their forerunning couriers and detached flying outriders.  All four
seemed, were flitting on the other side of the deck, and, with a noiseless
seemingly purposeless questions.  But, they were all eagerness again, as Ahab,
seems blasphemous.  Hark ye yet again, --the little lower layer.  All visible
seems but a part of the general
seems, communicated it to Tashtego with Romish injunctions of secresy, but
seems, in a boat.  And now his bandaged cry was, to beach him on the whale's
seen no more till it came up weltering astern.  Again we swam for it, were
seen pulling the harpooneer oar, he had thrown aside his black jacket, and
seen.
seethings, made what seemed a silvery silence, not a solitude: on such a
seize us, let us add, that even the king of terrors, when personified by the
seizing the line-knife from his broken prow, had dashed at the whale, as an
self-same whale; and that whale, Moby Dick.  For a time, there reigned, too, a
separate colors, black above and white below.  The white comprises part of his
separate voyage; the irregularity of the times of sailing from home; all
separately regarded, which heightens the intolerable hideousness of that
set like a flint from Stubb's.  What think ye of those yellow boys, sir!
setting the sail of his best whale-boat, steered straight before the wind for
several of her company; especially by radney the mate.  He commanded the
several of the whales were wounded; when, suddenly, a very large whale
shadows of Fate, and by those wild cries announcing their coming.  There she
shadows of night; no sign of the ship could be seen.  The rising sea forbade
shaking myself in my jacket to fling off the water; Queequeg, my fine
shall have for dinner --for all your meals for three years and more are snugly
shape of the Folio volume, but the Octavo volume does.
sharp ridge.  Let him go.  I know little more of him, nor does anybody else.
she blows right ahead, boys! -- lay back!  Never heed yonder yellow boys,
sheathing in the bottom of the boat, as if to make it better withstand the
sheep's ear!  And here, his mad mind would run on in a breathless race; till
shelf or chest of drawers in your body, and no more can you make a
shelf, he goes down rollicking, so far at least as he remains visible from
shifted to any other soil, and here there's none but the crew's cursed clay.
ship's planks, and in the Glacier's case, perhaps, to there having been so
ship, and for ever threw shifting gleams and shadows of lines upon his
ship, which was in full sail, was almost upon him, so that it was
ship.  But for all this, the great negro was wonderfully abstemious, not to
ship.  at sunrise the captain went forward, and knocking on the deck,
shipmate, will ye?  It's the three soaked biscuits ye eat for supper turning
ships take those absent-minded young philosophers to task, upbraiding them
ships themselves often pick up such queer castaway creatures found tossing
ships, as well as for other reasons, he must have been a whale; and I am
shipwrecked, instead of rainbows speaking hope and solace to his misery,
shirr!  Here have I heard all their chat just now, and the white whale
shirt, caught in the teeth that had destroyed him.  All four boats gave chase
shivered.  Once more, and finally, the replenished pewter went the rounds
shook the back-stay.  Hardly had he done so, when he was surrounded by the
short-sighted; what use, then, to strain the visual nerve?  They have left
shout; while the mariners began to gaze curiously at each other, as if
shouted out, "There she rolls!  there she rolls!"  Jesu, what a whale!  It
shovel was almost as plainly meant to sting and insult Steelkilt, as though
shrewdness in foreseeing that, for the present, the hunt should in some way
shudder, sleeping in this gale, still thou steadfastly eyest thy purpose.
shuddering sort of little fellow, this bread-faced steward; the progeny of a
shut up in the caved trunk of his body, there fed upon the sullen paws of its
shy; always going solitary; unexpectedly rising to the surface in the
side-lunging strides, Ahab commanded the t'gallant sails and royals to be set,
sideways by settling down on his stretched legs; but a sudden, violent pitch
sight of the world's riveted eyes, it would never do, I say, for this
sign from Ahab, Starbuck was now pulling obliquely across Stubb's bow; and
sign of mutiny reappeared among the rest.  On the contrary, it seemed, that
sign over to you my Martha's Vineyard plantation, boys; including wife and
signifying nothing.  Finally: It was stated at the outset, that this system
silence, then, that voices thee. ( aside) something shot from my dilated
silent night a silvery jet was seen far in advance of the white bubbles at
silently burning along towards them; as he instinctively saw all this, that
silver chips, the foam-flakes flew over her bulwarks; then all this desolate
since the blow, he had lain in his berth; but that morning, hearing the
single hail from below, however madly invoked to befriend by their counsels
sir -- ( Aside) he's my superior, he has his too, if I'm not mistaken. -- Aye,
sir, if ye please!  Halloa!  returned Starbuck, turning round not a single
sit upon it.  Drink, ye harpooneers!  drink and swear, ye men that man the
sitting silly and dumfoundered before awful Ahab.  Now, Ahab and his three
six of the foremast-men deliberately deserted among the palms; eventually, as
sixty degrees of latitude arrive in the equatorial Pacific in time to cruise
skeleton of a stranded walrus.  All down her sides, this spectral appearance
sky?  Hear I the roaring streams from Pirohitee's peak of spears, when they
sleep, this dream is on ye, move your foot or hand an inch; slip your hold
sleepiest of sunsets?  Or, to choose a wholly unsubstantial instance, purely
sleeping-time, when they passed through it to their own peculiar quarters.
slide of the scuttle, planted their group of hands upon it, and loudly
sloop-of-war of the first class, happened to be dining with a party of
small and snug contrivances in which men temporarily isolate themselves.  Your
small gold-fish has its glassy globe.  His heaven-insulting purpose, God may
small indeed.  For, owing to the large number of whale-cruisers; the
small-headed, bluff-chested, and with the dignity of a thousand monarchs in
smitten tree gives birth to its fungi; but, in maritime life, far more than
snorting charger; and a brain, and a heart, and a soul in him, gentlemen,
snorts to think of it.  Stand up amid the general hurricane, thy one tost
snow's caps turn to jig it now.  They'll shake their tassels soon.  Now would
snow-white bull; and though to the noble Iroquois, the midwinter sacrifice
snow-white chapels, whose spires stand almost like milestones, flows one
snow-white hump, could not but be unmistakable.  And have I not tallied the
snuffed in the sublime life of the worlds.  Not by beef or by bread, are
so far as to have some sort of a half-hinted influence; Heaven knows, but
so small that it is not very readily discernible.  But the next time you have
so smite his stout sloop-of-war as to cause her to leak so much as a
so strictly according with the wildness of his ruling passion, yet were by
so that the closed eyes were pointed towards the needle of the tell-tale that
so the appellation must at last have come to be bestowed upon the whale from
so wide, and in those for ever exiled waters, I had lost the miserable
so, too, in most of the American whalers the harpooneers are lodged in the
so; thou reddenest and palest; my heat has melted thee to anger-glow.  But
so?  Because a laugh's the wisest, easiest answer to all that's queer; and
soaked through just like me, he gave me to understand that such things did
social arrogance.  With one mind, their intent eyes all fastened upon the old
social equal.  Now, the grand distinction drawn between officer and man at
solace the languishing interval with his pipe.  He withdrew it from his
solecism of terms there are birds called grey albatrosses; and these I have
some days before had been placidly swimming by our side, darted away with what
some days we had very little wind; it was not till the nineteenth that a
some dim, unsuspected way, he might have seemed the gliding great demon of
some merchant ships crossing each other's wake in the mid-Atlantic, will
some of these instances it has been declared that the interval of time between
some of those instances wherein this thing of whiteness --though for the time
some one or two of his men to snatch a fearful look over the shoulder.  But
some ordinary, prudential, circumstantial influences were brought to bear upon
some really landless latitude, that her captain begins to feel a little
some sixteen feet in length, while its horn averages five feet, though some
some small measure prepared them for the event.  It took off the extreme edge
some time or other, swims before all human hearts; while chasing such over
somehow fell from his hand into the sea; and the wind now rising amain, he
something down the crack, closed it, and turned the key upon them --ten in
sometimes cushioned seat there, and often steers himself with a pretty little
somewhat larger than the Huzza Porpoise, but much of the same general make.
somewhat prematurely revealed the prime but private purpose of the Pequod's
somewhere by the sharkish sea.  The white whale is their demigorgon.  Hark!
somewhere those things must exist.  Though in many of its aspects this visible
son, and little boy of this weary family party.  His were the shinbones of
soon shows symptoms of concluding his repast, then Flask must bestir
soothingly sighed Stubb to his crew, some of whom still showed signs of
sort in the wind.  Tish!  the bucket!
sort of genial, desperado philosophy; and with it I now regarded this whole
sort of shyness between them; for your Englishman is rather
soul were nigh him resumed his heavy turns upon the deck.  With bent head and
soul, -- Rad, and a beauty too.  Boys, they say the rest of his property is
souls they would rather not see whales than otherwise.  But all in vain; those
souls!  question that proud, sad king!  A family likeness!  aye, he did beget
sound as of fifty elephants stirring in their litter.  Meanwhile the boat was
sound of the hinges of their own jaws, the harpooneers chewed their food with
soundings; heart and helm they both go down; he never rests till blue water
spangled with golden gleamings.  Nor was it his unwonted magnitude, nor his
speaking, was slowly rubbing the gold piece against the skirts of his jacket,
spear in hand, Radney sprang to the bow.  He was always a furious man, it
specially employed in the celebration of the Passion of our Lord; though in
specimen of his sermonizings that he ever flew into downright passions with
spectralness
sperm whale, once struck, is allowed time to rally, he then acts, not so
sperm whales, and that the more monsters he slew by so much the more he
sperm whales.  So that though Moby Dick had in a former year been seen, for
spherical ripples, and this gnomon-like fin stands up and casts shadows upon
spice to the fun, that no oarsman could hear such queer invocations without
spine, and meet it! ( Leaps to his feet.) Portuguese Sailor How the sea
spiritual exasperations.  The White Whale swam before him as the monomaniac
spite of their amazement the men sprang over the rail; the sheaves whirled
splice hands on it, now?  I think ye do look brave.  Aye, aye!  shouted the
splinters, or drive them back in consternation to their ship.  Already several
split jibs!  tear yourselves!  Tashtego ( Quietly smoking.) That's a white
sports; his slouched and gaily-ribboned hat betoken his grand features.  A
spout is a big one, like a whole shock of wheat, and white as a pile of our
sprained with ye!" he cried, at last; "but there is still rope enough left
spray, and, for an instant, was dimly seen through that veil, wildly seeking
squall!  the squall!  jump, my jollies! ( They scatter.) Pip ( shrinking
squall, something as they burst a waterspout with a pistol --fire your ship
stabbing him in the eye with the unflinching poniard of his glance,
stair-like formation of all four sides of those edifices; whereby, with
stampedoes of her frantic seas: nor the tearlessness of arid skies that never
stand before me; and I their match.  Oh, hard!  that to fire others, the
stand in a sort of corporeal relation.  Starbuck's body and Starbuck's coerced
stand on.  but what is a gam?  you might wear out your index-finger running
stand there with your irons; and ye, stout mariners, ring me in, that I may
stand, lost in the infinite series of the sea, with nothing ruffled but the
starboard quarter.  The figure that now stood by its bows was tall and swart,
stare at?  Those chaps in yonder boat?  Tut!  They are only five more hands
staring mad: See!  see that white water!  And so shouting, he pulled his hat
start; and none howled more fiercely with delight than did Steelkilt, as he
statement of the entire case.  Considering, therefore, that squalls and
stating that a great earthquake, somewhere about that time, did actually do
steady, ivory stride was heard, as to and fro he paced his old rounds, upon
steamer, and the beech canoe; they are swept by Borean and dismasting blasts
steeds; though even in the higher mysteries of the most august religions it
steel-bits.  Start her --start her, my silver-spoons!  Start her,
steelkilt, clenching his right hand behind him and creepingly drawing it back,
steering oar as in a thousand boat lowerings ere the White Whale had torn him.
stem him.  And as if the now tested reality of his might had in former
stern like a crazed colt from the prairie.  Look at that chap now,
steward, thrusting his pale loaf-of-bread face from the cabin-scuttle,
steward.  "Come out of that, ye cut-throats!"  Steelkilt leaped on the
steward.  And then the three harpooneers were bidden to the feast, they being
stiff an arm to back a poor stranger in a strait, as to plunder a wealthy
still booming through the mist, the waves curling and hissing around us like
still further aft the sheet of his sail; there is time to kill a fish yet
still further in their superstitions; declaring Moby Dick not only ubiquitous,
still he knew that for all this the chief mate, in his soul, abhorred his
still remained at their duty toiling hard at the pumps, whose clinking and
still standing upon the top of the uncompleted tower.  For small erections may
stone pillar in the desert and spent the whole latter portion of
stood in a line along the bulwarks in the waist; and the better to guard
stopped on the way by a portly sperm whale, that begged a few moments'
stories after death, but he was admitted into all the rights, privileges,
storm-lashed guns, on which the sea-salt cakes! 4th Nantucket Sailor He has
stormed his general sanity, and carried it, and turned all its concentred
storms.  But even had this not been the case, he would not after all,
story was unknown to the captain of the Town-Ho himself.  It was the private
stowed in casks, and your bill of fare is immutable.  In one of those southern
straddling captain to be seen steadying himself the slightest particle by
straight wake, yet the arbitrary vein in which at these times he is said to
straightened it a little there; all these things, I say, had awakened much
strained at his oar.  After a stiff pull, their harpooneer got fast, and,
strange forbearance and unwillingness to stir up the deeper passionateness in
strangely tallies with the same quality in the Polar quadruped.  This
stranger and stronger emotions than that man does, who for the first time
stranger's flanks.  Though in the course of his continual voyagings Ahab must
strangers at such a critical instant as the lowering of the boats from the
street, lest if they pursued the acquaintance further, they might receive a
strength, which periodically started the boat along the water like a
stretched as a corpse, with his forehead crushed in.  But, gentlemen, a fool
stretched out like a wand, and at brief sudden intervals he continued his
strictest peacefulness, obey all orders to the last, and, when the ship
strike the imagination with unwonted power.  For, it was not so much his
strikes more of panic to the soul than that redness which affrights in blood.
striking than his baleen?  Yet we have seen that by his baleen it is
stroke of his dead limb sounded like a coffin-tap.  On life and death this old
stroke to sweep the stakes!  Hurrah for the gold cup of sperm oil, my heroes!
strong emotion mankind disdain all base considerations; but such times are
stronger I shouted, and more did I hammer and clinch my oath, because of the
strongly inclined to think a sperm whale.  And I will tell you why.  For a
strongly, or weakly, as the case might be; and by this difference in the
struck as against a sunken ledge, and keeling over, spilled out the standing
style in which I once narrated it at Lima, to a lounging circle of my Spanish
subdivisions based upon the most inconclusive differences, that some
subserve.  That certain sultanism of his brain, which had otherwise in a good
substance called brit is to be found, the aliment of the right whale.  But I
substantiates every word.
substituting present Lima for distant Venice in your corrupt comparison.  Oh!
subtilty, and by some honest white mariners supposed to be the paid spies and
subtle demonisms of life and thought; all evil, to crazy Ahab, were visibly
such a chart is in course of completion; and portions of it are presented in
such a furious trope may stand, his special lunacy
such a marvellous cadence as from Tashtego the Indian's.  As he stood hovering
such a relish that there was a report to it.  They dined like lords; they
such a thwack, that with all his pumps going he made straight for the nearest
such an apparition as the Sperm Whale was not for mortal man.  That to attempt
such generous conceits never entered the heads of the owners of the Pequod.
such ripe, bursting grapes.  Sicilian Sailor ( Reclining.) Tell me not of
such vast altitudes, and the natural conceit of what a fearfulness it would
such vast swiftness to the most widely distant points.  It is a thing well
sucking his own paws; so, in his inclement, howling old age, Ahab's soul,
sudden maelstrom; seized the swimmer between his jaws; and rearing high up
sudden racket in the hold below.  And poor little Flask, he was the youngest
suddenly and nervously twitched them; meanwhile, glancing intently from
suddenness of the shock made the guns leap in their carriages, and several of
sufferable latitudes, the ship, with mild stun'sails spread, floated across
sultan's step has died away, and Starbuck, the first Emir, has every reason to
summary thump for their presumption.  But not only did each of these famous
summoned all hands; and separating those who had rebelled from those who had
summoned the prisoners to work; but with a yell they refused.  Water was
summoned them there for the purpose of witnessing a pedestrian feat.  But this
sun do that, then could I do the other; since there is ever a sort of fair
sunlight, that smiled on, as if at a birth or a bridal.  His three boats stove
sunrise nobly spurred me, so the sunset soothed.  No more.  This lovely
sunset skies and woods; yea, and the gilded velvets of butterflies, and the
superadd the official supremacy of a ship-master, then, by inference, you
superior altitude.  Hence, I conclude, that in boasting himself to be high
superior in general pride of manhood, straightway against that man he
superiority what it will, it can never assume the practical, available
superlatively critical instant of going on to the whale I must resign my life
superstitious surmisings; though the affair still left abundant room for all
superstitiously inclined, was the unearthly conceit that Moby Dick was
supplied with five extra men, as that same boat's crew, he well knew that
suppose that he is seated, then Starbuck rouses from his quietude, takes a
supremacy over other men, without the aid of some sort of external arts and
surface of the Polar Sea,
surging, hollow roar they made, as they rolled along the eight gunwales, like
surprise than the rest, and at the mention of the wrinkled brow and crooked
surprise, but at last seemed struck with a thought which somewhat explained
surrender, he would let them go with a reprimand, which he accordingly
surrender; and thereby secure whatever small chance of pardon such conduct
surrenderest to a hypo, Ishmael.  Tell me, why this strong young colt, foaled
surrounding it somewhat resembles a dial, with its style and wavy hour-lines
suspected.  They were hidden down there.  The White Whale's at the bottom of
suspended in chains over his head, continually rocked with the motion of the
swam to the boat; and climbing the gunwale, stood face to face with the
swart visage and bold swagger are not unshunned in cities.  Once a vagabond on
sweeping a ship's deck at sea is a piece of household work which in all times
sweet cardinals!  your own condescension, that shall bend ye to it.  I do not
swell to whelm my track; let them; but first I pass.  Yonder, by the
swerved from its ultimate course --its every alternating vibration, indeed,
swiftly slid aft, and then erecting himself volunteered his lofty shoulders
swim, generally embraces some few miles in width (more or less, as the vein
swings himself to the deck, and in an even, unexhilarated voice, saying,
sword-fish and bill-fish; though some sailors tell me that the Narwhale
swung from a beam in the ceiling.  Terrible old man!  thought Starbuck with a
swung over a fathomless sea;
symbol of their faction, the desperate White Hoods of Ghent murder their
symbolize whatever grand or
system does not proceed, inasmuch as the Porpoise is the smallest of the
table; this is marvellous, sometimes most comical.  Wherefore this
take it, that the earliest standers of mast-heads were the old Egyptians;
taken no part in the mutiny, he told the former that he had a good mind to
tales of
tarpaulins they hailed the act of nailing the gold to the mast.  It's a
taste, observe ye, else come satiety.  Eh, Pagan? ( Nudging.) Tahitan
technical phrase --the Season-on-the-Line.  For there and then, for several
technically called the captain's, on account of its hanging from the
tells us, that in the early times of the whale fishery, ere ships were
ten to one, let those very officers the next moment go down to their customary
terrible casualty which had overtaken him.  The report of his undeniable
terrible shock, which put our men in such consternation that they could
terrible.  From its snowy aspect, the gauntleted ghost of the Southern Seas
terror to the smiling innocence of the villages through which he floats; his
terror.  But there are other instances where this whiteness loses all that
terror; rather pleasure.  for though it was a most unwonted hour, yet so
terrors, and often in the precipitancy of their flight dash themselves
than kill ye, and be hung for such a shabby rascal, we won't lift a hand
than that; the man who darted them happening, in the interval, to go in a
than the ugliest abortion.  Why should this be so?  Nor, in quite other
thank him heartily; would fain be not ungrateful; but it is often one of the
that Flask once admitted in private, that ever since he had arisen to the
that I wear?  this Iron Crown of Lombardy.  Yet is it bright with many a gem;
that as in essence whiteness is not so much a color as the visible absence of
that bird upon our deck.  For neither had I then read the Rhyme, nor knew
that by its indefiniteness it shadows forth the heartless voids and
that corporeally exasperated state, I know not; but so it happened.
that dazzlingly confounds. 'Tis iron --that I know--not gold. 'Tis split, too
that den.  but the scheme met with no opposition on the part of the other two;
that every dismembering or death that he caused, was not wholly regarded as
that every individual moment, indeed, then comprises a peril; under these
that fish.  The Romish mass for the dead begins with Requiem eternam
that going plump on a flying whale with your sail set in a foggy squall is the
that ground in search of his prey.  So assured, indeed, is the fact concerning
that had each lost a boat's crew.  For God's sake, be economical with your
that his bones might be picked, the simple-witted Steward all but shattered
that imbecile candle in the heart of that almighty forlornness.  There, then,
that in due rotation with the other seamen my first mast-head came round.  In
that in truth it is not so, is plainly evinced by an item for which Obed
that intensified terror.  As for the white shark, the white gliding
that it seemed the mechanical humming of the wheels of his vitality in him.
that night, you would have thought that in him also two different things were
that night.  Every sailor swore he saw it once, but not a second time.  This
that of a whale-ship
that off the Azores; off the Cape de Verdes; on the Plate (so called),
that path, migrating whales may with great confidence be looked for.  And
that poor fellow there, who this moment perhaps caught by the whale-line off
that respect any chance whale may be, they soon put an end to his
that several vessels reported to have encountered, at such or such a time, or
that spotless, faithful creature being held the purest envoy they could send
that storm.  Meanwhile the driving scud, rack, and mist, grew darker with the
that suddenly sweeping his sickle-shaped lower jaw beneath him, Moby Dick had
that the imminent instant had come; they heard, too, an enormous wallowing
that they ever encamp around the halls of justice, so sinners, gentlemen,
that those seas are not, and perhaps never can be, in the present
that way.  And this is the Bibliographical system here adopted; and it is the
that we left behind secure, were all the time before us.  Were this world an
that well replenished little case-bottle, so nicely tucked in on one side of
that what just before might have seemed to him a thing most momentous, now
that whenever and wherever descried; at however remote times, or in however
that while in the open air of the deck some officers will, upon provocation,
the Blue Whale; etc.  From Icelandic, Dutch, and old English authorities,
the British Greenland Fishery, under the corrupted title of Specksioneer,
the Cape winds began howling around us, and we rose and fell upon the long,
the Captain and his posse leaped the barricade, and rapidly drawing over the
the Coppered Whale; the Elephant Whale; the Iceberg Whale; the Quog Whale;
the Macrocephalus of the Long Words.  He is, without doubt, the largest
the Pacific, so far as it is known.  The only English name, by which he has
the Pequod had sailed from Nantucket at the very beginning of the
the Pequod were evincing their observance of this ominous incident at the
the Pequod who came to the full knowledge of it, and by such a strange
the Sperm Whale fishery at large, than to the individual cause.  In that way,
the Vision of St.  John, white robes are given to the redeemed, and the
the White Whale might have possibly extended itself in some degree to all
the air came so nigh to each other that we might almost have leaped from the
the art of human malice omitted so potent an auxiliary.  How wildly it
the auger-hole there, and with one hand grasping a shroud, he ordered Starbuck
the backstays leading far aloft to where two of his comrades were standing
the bare mention of that name, while the thought of Virginia's Blue Ridge is
the base of a cataract; and then the vast hull rolled over it, and it was
the beginning.  For me, I silently recalled the mysterious shadows I had seen
the bird to be an albatross.  Yet, in saying this, I do but indirectly
the bison; but, alas!  only to fall into the hidden snare of the Indian.
the black terrific Ahab, and the periodical tumultuous visitations of these
the blast, and gored the dark waves in her madness, till, like showers of
the bookbinder's Quarto volume in its diminished form does not preserve the
the bow.  Lit up by the moon, it looked celestial; seemed some plumed and
the bowels of despair; it was then that Steelkilt proposed to the two
the breeze.  Now this Radney, I suppose, was as little of a coward, and as
the bright waist, that line streaks him from stem to stern, with two
the buffalo; I believe I have broken a finger here against his cursed jaw;
the bulkhead below.  But the hours of darkness passed in peace; the men who
the castle at Windsor.  An Irish author avers that the Earl of Leicester,
the characterizing mind, which at other times employed it for its outer
the circle preliminary to scalping him.  He was naturally a very nervous,
the cleat, and with the carpenter's chisel gouged out a little here and
the coast of New Guinea, is being carried down to the bottom of the sea by
the coasts of foreign lands, if by night he hear the roar of breakers, starts
the command.  Captain Ahab?-- said Starbuck.  Spread yourselves, cried Ahab;
the common apprehension, this phenomenon of whiteness is not confessed to be
the crockery hanging round him in the pantry, by his sudden fits of the
the customary sweepers; who, not being billeted at the pumps, had done little
the dark for the blood, he and all his armed mates and harpooneers rushed for
the dead level of the mass.  Such large virtue lurks in these small things
the dead which most appals the gazer, is the marble pallor lingering there;
the deck he would seek to recover his strength.  Ah, God!  what trances of
the deck owing to the resistance of the water, but to shoot down upon them is
the deck, concluding that we had struck upon some rock; instead of this we
the deck, reversing all other processions, by bringing up the rear with music.
the deep, yet is he not popularly classed among whales.  But possessing all
the devious zig-zag world-circle of the Pequod's circumnavigating wake.  But
the direction taken by any one whale be straight as a surveyor's parallel, and
the distracted decks upon which they gaze; however it may be surmised, that
the erected crests of enraged serpents.  That's his hump.  There, there,
the exact minute to Ahab.  The ship was now kept away from the wind, and she
the far horizon; but lulled into such an opium-like listlessness of vacant,
the fathom-deep life of the whale.  That captain was Ahab.  And then it was,
the first unknown phantom in the other world; --neither of these can feel
the following
the following night Tashtego rambled in his sleep, and revealed so much of it
the fore-ordaining soul of Steelkilt, the mate was already stark and
the frightened colt!  Though neither knows where lie the nameless things of
the frozen seas.  In the fire-side narrative of Captain Sleet, entitled A
the gaunt pines stand like serried lines of kings in Gothic genealogies;
the gay, embattled, bantering bow, but only to drag dark Ahab after it, where
the goblet end?  Turn up the socket!  So, so; now, ye cup-bearers, advance.
the grand distinctive features of the leviathan, most naturalists have
the grave always ready dug to the seaman's hand --that fatal hour was then to
the great Pope washes the feet of beggars, using his tiara for ewer?  Oh, my
the group; he stood for an instant searchingly eyeing every man of his crew.
the halyards!  in top-gallant sails!  Stand by to reef topsails!  All The
the hammer uplifted in one hand, exhibiting the gold with the other, and with
the history of the plagues of Egypt.  But fortunately the special point I here
the hollows of so many sails, made the buoyant, hovering deck to feel like
the holy-of-holies of great forests; on Roman arches over Indian rivers;
the horizontal piece in the boat's bow for bracing the knee against in
the idea also, that this same spermaceti was that quickening humor of the
the immense projecting steering oar hitting him now and then in the small of
the infernal orgies!  that revelry is forward!  mark the unfaltering silence
the iron, escaped.  Though completely swamped, the boat was nearly unharmed.
the issue of the gale.  Then Captain and crew become practical fatalists.
the job; he's come back again with a gang of ship-carpenters, saw-fish, and
the last person down at the dinner,
the leak not being then considered at all dangerous, though, indeed, they
the least; but my one cogged circle fits into all their various wheels, and
the life of them, cannot well avoid a mutual salutation; and stopping for a
the lip in eating --an ugly sound enough --so much so, that the trembling
the live coals down the chimney of a flaming furnace as hail those boats in
the loggerhead itself, under such circumstances.  But the sight of little
the mariner.  Full of fine spirits, they invariably come from the breezy
the mask!  How can the prisoner reach outside except by thrusting through the
the men were shaken out of their hammocks.  Captain Davis, who lay with his
the mere sight of such a yawning commander, by sheer force of contrast,
the morning of the second day, when they were washing down the decks, that
the most gamesome and light-hearted of all
the most marvellous event in this book corroborated by plain facts of the
the muffled rollings of a milky sea; the bleak rustlings of the festooned
the mutineers bolted up into the air from the desperate arms below that sought
the northern American coast.  He has been frequently captured there, and towed
the northward of the Line.  One morning upon handling the pumps, according to
the number who as yet had actually and knowingly given battle to him, was
the occasional flap of a sail, and the steady hum of the unceasingly
the ocean prevailed; still in silence the men swung in the bowlines; still
the open sea, on our way to Ochotsh.  The weather was very clear and fine,
the pallid bulwarks, was in the act of putting his trumpet to his mouth, it
the periodicalness of the sperm whale's resorting to given waters, that many
the plains, like an Ohio; or whether with his circumambient subjects browsing
the previous repast, often the pale Dough-Boy was fain to bring on a great
the prime agent in exaggerating the terror of objects otherwise terrible; nor
the pump at last, with the rest of his band, the Lakeman went forward all
the pumps ran across the deck, and poured itself out in steady spouts at the
the punctilious externals, at least, of the quarter-deck are seldom materially
the pursuit of whales is always under great and extraordinary difficulties;
the rack), together with a powder flask and shot, for the purpose of popping
the respective marks cut in them, afterwards taken from the dead fish.  In the
the resurrection; they must kiss their last, and come to judgment.  That's
the rippling clear water; clear as any mountain spring, gentlemen --that
the sailors, goat-like, leaped down the rolling ship's side into the tossed
the sails fell altogether, while we who were below all sprang instantly upon
the saline beef; his would have been the drumsticks.  For Flask to have
the same imperial hue; and though this pre-eminence in it applies to the
the same snow-white quadruped in the royal standard; and the Hanoverian flag
the same sorcery, however modified; --can we thus hope to light upon some
the seamen to adopt this sort of passiveness in their conduct, he kept his
the seamen were lazily lounging about the decks, or vacantly gazing over
the seas of life, --all this to explain, would be to dive deeper than Ishmael
the second species of my Folios?  It is the Great Mysticetus of the English
the secret among themselves so that it never transpired abaft the Pequod's
the ship denied it to him, on account of its clotting his clear, sunny
the ship, by knocking off at a time like this?  Turn to!" and he once more
the ship.  dashing his forehead against her hull, he so stove her in, that
the shock to an earthquake, and seems to substantiate the imputation by
the shuddering gasps of the oarsmen, with the wondrous sight of the ivory
the side and step down into the cabin to chat with the captain, and it would
the soft feeling of the human in me, yet will I try to fight ye, ye grim,
the solid metal; aye, steel skull, mine; the sort that needs no helmet in the
the sounding leviathan --do you suppose that that poor fellow's name will
the spread through the whole world-wide whaling-fleet of the special
the state of New York; through numerous populous cities and most thriving
the storm.  The sound came nearer and nearer; the thick mists were dimly
the strangest, saddest city thou can'st see.  For Lima has taken the white
the stroke.  Steelkilt here hissed out something, inaudible to all but the
the stronger men in the Town-Ho that had been divided into gangs, taking
the sun -- it is a sixteen dollar piece, men.  D'ye see it?  Mr. Starbuck,
the surface.  When the sea is moderately calm, and slightly marked with
the suspended craft seemed a coral boat grown up to us from the bottom of the
the swart Fedallah and his crew, the inmates of the other boats obeyed not
the top-maul; a white whale.  Skin your eyes for him, men; look sharp for
the tranquil tropics, and, to all appearances, the old man's delirium seemed
the triangular raised box in the bow, the savage stood erect there, and with
the two assaults could not have exceeded very many days.  Hence, by inference,
the uproar, and sought to drag their man out of it towards the forecastle.
the various hours you spend at the mast-head would amount to several entire
the vessel's leaving her port; even though she may have fifteen thousand
the waves rolled by like scrolls of silver; and, by their soft, suffusing
the way -- that's it; thy throat ain't spoiled with eating Amsterdam butter.
the whale which for more than two centuries past has been hunted by the Dutch
the whale-ship's mast-heads, when circumspectly gliding along this magic
the whaleboats for service; when some time after this Ahab was now and then
the whales from the waters, he states as follows: On account of their warm
the whales, making more gay foam and white water generally than any other of
the winds in the cordage; nor yet the hollow flap of the sails against the
the wonderfulness and fearfulness of the
the wrinkled surface, it may well be supposed that the watery circle
thee; I see!  the billow lifts thee!  Speak, but speak! --Aye, aye!  thy
thee; and he whose intense thinking thus makes him a Prometheus; a vulture
their departure, taking place in inverted order to their arrival, the canvas
their eager crews with one hand clung to the rail, while one foot was
their fish and returned to the ship in good time.  The ship had given us up,
their forecastle appellations; for possibly such a list may be valuable to
their hats off to it, and ere long that peculiar gasping of the lungs was
their holy sepulchre, without committing burglaries, picking pockets, and
their last wills and testaments, but there are no people in the world more
their mast-heads.  They were both Canallers.  "Canallers!" cried Don Pedro,
their one final and romantic object --that final and romantic object, too many
their opera-glasses at home.  Why, thou monkey, said a harpooneer to one of
their regular soundings, not a temporary dive from mere fright; and if that
their spirits penetrate through the thick haze of the future, and descry what
their whole way across it; though of a still, sleepy night, should the
them for other and more private ends than they were legitimately intended to
them in so heavy a vessel.  After taking counsel with his officers, he
them to produce their weapons.  Then ranging them before him near the capstan,
them to the last, they in some way, by some subtle chemistry of villany,
them, till they are left living on with half a heart and half a lung.  That
them.  Alone, in such remotest waters, that though you sailed a thousand
them.  BOOK I. ( Folio), CHAPTER V. ( Razor Back). --Of this whale little is
then lowered down to them, and a couple of handfuls of biscuit were tossed
then, God, mad'st thou the ring?  Mate's Voice from the Quarter Deck Hands by
then, by a dexterous sleight, pitching his cap up into the mizentop for a
then, how soon would their aghast and righteous souls have wrenched the ship
then, the plebeian herds crouch abased before the tremendous centralization.
then, you properly put these statements together, and reason upon them a bit,
theoretic species denominated Whalebone whales, that is, whales with baleen.
there did about Rinaldo Rinaldini, insomuch that most fishermen were
there for ballast.  Nevertheless there have occurred instances, well
there is nothing new under the sun.  In the sixth Christian century lived
there like a leech, till the mighty brute is worried to death.  The Killer
there might be quoted other lists of uncertain whales, blessed with all
there was no reason to suppose that the fish seen by Tashtego had been in any
there you are now; that's the stroke for a thousand pounds; that's the
there.  Therefore, he must wait for the next ensuing season.  Yet the
there.  This boat had always been deemed one of the spare boats, though
there?" said a shipmate.  "What do you think?  what does it look like?"
therefore may not be able to recall them now.  Why to the man of untutored
therein certainly must have been some touch of mundane grandeur.  But he who
these assaults --not restricted to sprained wrists and ancles, broken limbs,
these events, as if verily mapped out before the world itself was charted.
these fabulous narrations are almost fully equalled by the realities of the
these lads, we've been cruising now hard upon three years, and thou hast not
these miscreants must come out.  Upon hearing the frantic project of their
these ships should not only interchange hails, but come into still closer,
these things do in some cases tend to beget a less rigorous discipline than in
these, and death itself, seem to him only sly, good-natured hits, and jolly
these, with other circumstances, direct and indirect, long obstructed
these; yet in their full terribleness, even to the bloodthirsty item of
they are!  To a landsman, no whale, nor any sign of a herring, would have
they can be killed; and this sunken-eyed young Platonist will tow you ten
they exchange visits by boats' crews: the two captains remaining, for the
they give chase to Moby Dick, they must also have food for their more common,
they hung till morning.  "Damn ye," cried the Captain, pacing to and fro
they not only eye its greatest marvels, but, hand to jaw, give battle to
they revolve.  Or, if you will, like so many ant-hills of powder, they all
they say at times assumed the semblance of a snow-white cross against the sky?
they were in such a weakened condition that the captain durst not put off with
they were scarcely ever in it except at meal-times, and just before
they would ostentatiously sharpen their knives; that grating sound did not
thimbleful.  Very good; but there is more coming.  Some weeks after, the
thin, some of these whales will yield you upwards of thirty gallons of oil.
thine eye!  more intolerable than fiends' glarings is a doltish stare!  So,
thine, mannikin!  White skin, white liver!  Spanish Sailor ( meeting him)
things invested the Pequod, were there wanting some of the seamen who swore
things whose peculiarities are indiscriminately dispersed among all sorts of
things, a place for his habitual gregarious resort.  But further
things, and I am not.  Will you tell me whether it is an unalterable law in
things, nay, the very veil of the Christian's Deity; and yet should be as it
think there's naught beyond.  But 'tis enough.  He tasks me; he heaps me; I
thinking over it ever since, and that ha, ha's the final consequence.  Why
thirteenth of May our ship was ready to sail, and the next day we were out in
this admirable volume, all standers of mast-heads are furnished with a
this capstan; and ye mates, flank me with your lances; and ye harpooneers,
this catastrophe I have never chanced to encounter, though from the whale
this custom has now become obsolete; turn we then to the one proper mast-head,
this effeminacy is dashed.  The brigandish guise which the Canaller so proudly
this fish from other tribes of his genus.  There go flukes!  was now the cry
this fishery, Mr. Flask, for an oarsman to break his own back pulling himself
this in our old Mogul's wine; it's quite as deadening to some as
this loggerhead stand-point of his did by no means satisfy King-Post.  I
this mere aspect of all-pervading whiteness makes him more strangely hideous
this noble horse, that it was his spiritual whiteness chiefly, which so
this old Dutch official is still retained, but his former dignity is sadly
this planet.  But not so did it seem to Ahab, who knew the sets of all tides
this round globe, they either lead us on in barren mazes or midway leave us
this same humpbacked whale and the Greenland whale, each of these has baleen;
this time three years, if I am not at home, tell them to address them to-----
this to be true; yet, were it not for the whiteness, you would not have
this was against all rule; for the oarsmen must put out their eyes, and ram
thither, he says, about four o'clock in the morning, when we were about
those enviable little tents or pulpits, called crow's-nests, in which the
those same woods harboring wild Afric beasts of prey, and silken creatures
those so called judgments of God which at times are said to overtake some men.
those times, also, spermaceti was exceedingly scarce, not being used for
those waters for awhile, as the sun, in its annual round, loiters for a
thou terror of all cruisers that crossed their wakes in the vicinity of the
though a smaller one.  His oil is not very valuable.  He has baleen.  He is
though assuming for the time the almost continual command of the drenched and
though commanding worship, at the same time enforced a certain nameless
though the line of advance be strictly confined to its own unavoidable,
though there were times when, owing to peculiar circumstances connected with
though uncorking a bottle -- like him--him-- Corkscrew!  cried Ahab, aye,
though without dissent this point be fixed, how is mortal man to account for
thought Ahab, is sordidness.  Granting that the White Whale fully incites the
thought I might as well go below and make a rough draft of my will.
thought not.  Ahab well knew that although his friends at home would think
thought, or rather vague, nameless horror concerning him, which at times by
thoughts through the day, carried them on amid a clashing of phrensies, and
thousands of miles from Oregon, still when he smells that savage musk, the
threads of the warp subject to but one single, ever returning, unchanging
threads; and chance, though restrained in its play within the right lines of
threat, whatever that might have been.  The three men were then cut down,
three cup-bearers to my three pagan kinsmen there --yon three most honorable
three instances, then, which I personally know the truth of; but I have heard
three junior mates and the four harpooneers, who all crowded him to the deck.
three level, radiating lances at their crossed centre; while so doing,
three mast-heads and admonishing them to keep a bright look-out, and not omit
three savages, Dough-Boy's whole life was one continual lip-quiver.
three-year instance, it so fell out that I was in the boat both times, first
throbbings shook it.  Though bodily unharmed, it uttered cries, as some
throned on torsoes!  So with a broken throne, the great gods mock that
through a dark blue sea, leaving a milky-way wake of creamy foam, all
through each of which districts are three lines; one to show the number of
through numberless perils to the very point whence we started, where those
through such a string of silly bowings and scrapings, such a ducking of
through sun and shade; by happy hearts or broken; through all the wide
through these latter waters that one serene and moonlight night, when all
throw cold water on the subject; but excuse me.  Maltese Sailor Me too;
thunderings of naval victories; at intervals, they yield their beaches to
thus completely wedged before and behind, and can only expand himself
thus marked was not altogether and originally owing to his bodily
thus multitudinously baptized.  What then is the whale, which I include in
tide flow wide.  The hated whale has the round watery world to swim in, as the
tides were a conscience; and the great
tie he soon evinced himself to be linked with Ahab's peculiar fortunes; nay,
till all was over.  It was a sight to see Queequeg seated over against
till he spouts black blood and rolls fin out.  What say ye, men, will ye
time but a vacated thing, a formless somnambulistic being, a ray of living
time his ship was utterly lost, and forthwith forswearing the sea, he has
time of the tragedy; I have read his plain and faithful narrative; I have
time or place were attained, when all possibilities would become
time, on board of one ship, and the two chief mates on the other.  There is
time, the Town-Ho reached her port --a savage, solitary place --where no
times were not content to traverse two thousand miles of land to fight for
times, but never yet saw him captured.  BOOK III. ( Duodecimo), CHAPTER III.
to John Ferdinando, as he calls the modern Juan Fernandes.  In our way
to Moby Dick, the earlier days of the Sperm Whale fishery, when it was
to a certainty.  That particular set time and place were conjoined in the one
to a land beast of the unicorn nature.  The Narwhale has a very picturesque,
to ascribe the peculiar terror he bred, more, as it were, to the perils of
to be counted down in dollars from the mint.  He was intent on an audacious,
to be vague or inexpressive, I shall say so, and suggest another.  I do so
to breed a comfortable localness of feeling, such as pertains to a bed, a
to capture so famous and precious a fish; while the dogged crew eyed askance,
to cover a large expanse of water.  but with all their eyes again riveted upon
to describe, as he does, all the little detailed conveniences of his
to drive yawingly to some horizontal goal.  And had you watched Ahab's face
to evince all his well known passionate interest in the general pursuit of his
to go aft at dinner-time, and get a peep at Flask through the cabin sky-light,
to half sob and half shout.  God bless ye, men.  Steward!  go draw the great
to his one supreme purpose; that purpose, by its own sheer inveteracy of
to hunt him!  Oh, thou big white God aloft there somewhere in yon darkness,
to impart to it aught fearful, but, nevertheless, is found to exert over us
to involve with the whale a certain wondrous, inverted visitation of one of
to mark how the
to me of blasphemy, man; I'd strike the sun if it insulted me.  For could the
to remove himself from the eye of Moby Dick.  But the whale rushed round in a
to restrain them.  Only three were left.  "Better turn to, now?" said the
to say deprecatory and humble air towards him, as he sits at the head of the
to scorn; assuring him that if the pistol so much as clicked in the lock, he
to the Great Spirit with the annual tidings of their own fidelity; and though
to the Pacific, among many others we spoke thirty different ships, every one
to the iron way!
to the three men in the rigging --"for you, I mean to mince ye up for the
to the unimaginative mind is there aught of terror in those appearances whose
to the voyage, they all agreed to another thing --namely, not to sing out for
to twenty-five feet in length, and of corresponding dimensions round the
to vigilance, and feels just enough of trepidation to sharpen all his
to ye; come and see if ye can swerve me.  Swerve me?  ye cannot swerve me,
together with their common vigilance, intrepidity, and hard work; though all
together; the whole squall roared, forked, and crackled around us like a
too, Captain, cried Queequeg disjointedly, all twiske-tee betwisk, like
too, all the added moodiness which always afterwards, to the very day of
too, said Daggoo, very bushy, even for a parmacetty, and mighty quick,
too, upon that ribbed
tools; and of all tools used in the shadow of the moon, men are most apt to
topmost back.  Nothing loath, his bowsman hauled him up and up, through a
torments does that man endure who is consumed with one unachieved revengeful
tornado brow, and eyes of red murder, and foam-glued lips, Ahab leaped after
torrents' beds, unerringly I rush!  Naught's an obstacle, naught's an angle
tortoise with mystic hieroglyphics upon the back!  In plain prose, here are
tossed helter-skelter into the white curdling cream of the squall.  Squall,
tossed pack of cards; --it is not these things alone which make tearless Lima,
touching Emperors and Kings, I must not conceal that I have only to do with
towering main-mast in Baltimore, and like one of Hercules' pillars, his
tracing lines and courses upon the deeply marked chart of his forehead.  But
trading ship on a voyage to Africa, went ashore there, joined a discovery
traits; and this Lakeman, a mariner, who though a sort of devil indeed,
tranquillize his unquiet heart as to postpone all intervening quest.  Now,
transformed into those fowls and these fish, seemed condemned to swim on
transit over the widest watery spaces, the outblown rumors of the White Whale
trappings and housings are denied me.  Oh, Ahab!  what shall be grand in thee,
travellers than in any other part.  It was not very long after speaking the
treacherously beckoning us on and on, in order that the monster might turn
treated, this Steelkilt had long been retained harmless and docile.  At all
treats us to a very scientific account of his experiments in this crow's-nest,
trembling reverence and awe.  Nor can it be questioned from what stands on
triangularly platformed level with the gunwale, Starbuck himself was seen
tribe; and though, besides all this, whiteness has been
troubled seas that are there; when the ivory-tusked Pequod sharply bowed to
trowsers of the same dark stuff.  But strangely crowning his ebonness was a
true Ashantee, gentlemen; there howl your pagans; where you ever find them,
true histories of these deadly encounters.  For not only do fabulous rumors
try-pots;" and, seizing a rope, he applied it with all his might to the backs
tumult on the deck, he had crept out, and thus far had watched the whole
turns at the pumps; and being the most athletic seaman of them all,
twisting round his head, said in a sort of hiss, "What I say is this --and
two days, or three; and somehow seeming at every distinct repetition to be
two legs man is but a hobbling wight in all times of danger; considering that
ubiquitous; that he had actually been encountered in opposite latitudes at
ultimate chase of Moby Dick; for he had already revealed his intention to
unaccompanied, secluded White Whale had haunted those uncivilized seas mostly
unaccountable odds and ends of strange nations come up from the unknown nooks
unbidden and unfathered birth.  Therefore, the tormented spirit that glared
unbounded prairie sheeted with driven snow, no shadow of tree or twig to
unclad body; for as the soul is glued inside
uncommon bulk that so much distinguished him from other sperm whales, but, as
uncommon elevation, indeed; but only at the gallows.  And besides, when a
unconscious reverie is this absent-minded youth by the blending cadence of
undeniable dark side of mankind --devilish dark at that.  No offence.  Daggoo
underneath for umbrellas, comforters, and coats.  In front is a leather rack,
understand this; and all this and doubtless much more, the Lakeman fully
understood, and moreover to take away any incredulity which a profound
undiscernible form, seems to him the embodiment of those elusive thoughts that
uneasiness.  Why don't you break your backbones, my boys?  What is it you
unensanguined billows hundreds of leagues away, his unsullied jet would once
unerring binnacle compasses.  He did not say much to his crew, though, nor
unexaggerating historian, except in some one or two particulars, not at all
unexempt from that ignorance and superstitiousness hereditary to all sailors;
unfinished, even as the great Cathedral of Cologne was left, with the crane
unfrequent instances of great ferocity, cunning, and malice in the monster
ungodly old man, chasing with curses a Job's whale round the world, at the
uniform turn that he made, now at the main-mast and now at the binnacle, you
united in the opinion that the reasons set forth were altogether insufficient.
universality.  What I mean by these two statements may perhaps be respectively
unknown in his own proper individuality, and when his oil was only
unostentatious, hospitable, sociable, free-and-easy whaler!  What does the
unrelenting fangs of some incurable idea; such an one, could he be found,
unstaked, watery locality, southerly from St.  Helena.  It was while gliding
unsuppressable symptoms of some latent weakness, or fright at his own resolve,
untutored things are forced to feed --Oh, life! 'tis now that I do feel the
unusual for ships to keep clanging at their pump-handles in full chorus even
unusual hours; his turban and the moon, companions in one sky.  But when,
unworshipping things, that live; and seek, and give no reasons for the torrid
up and down the columns of dictionaries, and never find the word.  Dr.
up with his lance in the prow, and haul in or slacken the line, at the word
up!  Dutch Sailor Grand snoozing to-night, maty; fat night for that.  I mark
upon authoritative record years ago by Scoresby, that some whales have been
upon being the first man on deck, when the time to make the rush should come.
upon my soul, I had no more idea of being facetious than Moses, when he wrote
upon the broad sea keep tossing themselves to heaven like caps in a
upon the same piece of treachery, namely: to be foremost in breaking out,
upon the sea.  The jets of vapor no longer blended, but tilted everywhere to
upon two thin parallel sticks (almost peculiar to whalemen) called the t'
upper sails to be well hoisted, sheeted home anew, and every way expanded to
us, we found ourselves launched into this tormented sea, where guilty beings
us, we won't do a hand's turn." "Down into the forecastle then, down with
us; while thick in our rear flew the inscrutable sea-ravens.  And every
usages, as it were, he sometimes masked himself; incidentally making use of
usurpation, and the possible consequences of such a suppressed impression
utterly destroy, and sink a large ship; and what is more, the Sperm Whale has
vacancy between the boat and the ship, and down between this was the sea.
vacuity of life went away, but gave place to sights more dismal than before.
vanity of glory: there's the insanity of life!  Besides, if it were so that
varieties, most of which, however, are little known.  Broad-nosed whales and
vehicle or agent, it spontaneously sought escape from the scorching contiguity
veil; and there is a higher horror in this whiteness of her woe.  Old as
vengeance of Steelkilt, a Lakeman and desperado from Buffalo.  "Lakeman!
veriest trifles capriciously carry meanings.  Swim away from me, do ye?
vertically from the hinder part of the back, of an angular shape, and with a
very ancient and interesting one, let us in some measure expatiate here.  I
very moment is in his impetuousness upon the point of scuttling the craft
very much, my fine fellow; only I wish you fifty feet taller.  Whereupon
very sharp pointed end.  Even if not the slightest other part of the creature
vessels, were finally gone in quest of, systematically hunted out, chased and
vibration, and that vibration merely enough to admit of the crosswise
view, let me learnedly define it.  Gam.  Noun --A social meeting of two (or more)
viewing of those gallant whales That blew at every strand.  Oh, your tubs in
views what seems a boundless church-yard grinning upon him with its lean ice
vigilance over their dangerous allies was this small
villages; through long, dismal, uninhabited swamps, and affluent, cultivated
violence and revenge.  For some time past, though at intervals only, the
visible and invisible, never mind how knobby; as an ostrich of potent
visible world resting on him from the sides of the two ships, this standing
vocation, revived in the minds of the hunters.  So that overawed by the rumors
voice was heard announcing that silvery, moon-lit jet, every reclining
voyage of the Pequod, and the great White Whale its object.  Queequeg, said
voyage, Ahab was now entirely conscious that, in so doing, he had indirectly
voyage, on account of such dark symptoms, the calculating people of that
voyage, saith Black Letter, on bended knees he presented to her highness a
voyage; observe all customary usages; and not only that, but force himself
wag thy ears.  Jig it, men, I say; merry's the word; hurrah!  Damn me, won't
waist.  He swims in herds; he is never regularly hunted, though his oil is
waiter who waits upon cannibals.  Not a napkin should he carry on his arm,
wake, and further on, hunted by its wolfish gurglings.  The long howl thrills
wakes round the world, and never make you one pint of sperm the richer.  Nor
wall?  To me, the white whale is that wall, shoved near to me.  Sometimes I
walrus spouts much like a whale, but the walrus is not a fish, because he is
warm nostrils reddening through his cool milkiness; in whatever aspect he
warping memories of traditions and of towns.  Long I gazed at that prodigy
warrant me in concluding that it was anything but chance which directed his
warring.  While his one live leg made lively echoes along the deck, every
was Moby Dick.  "Moby Dick!" cried Don Sebastian; "St.  Dominic!  Sir sailor,
was elsewhere thrown out --a peculiar snow-white wrinkled forehead, and a
was in the very act of striking, when another hiss stayed his uplifted arm.
was not a great while after the affair of the pipe, that one morning shortly
was not to be driven from his place by fogs or frosts, rain, hail, or sleet;
was pulling him.  those tiger yellow creatures of his seemed all steel and
was the half-hissed reply.  Lower away then; d'ye hear?  shouting across the
was this conceit altogether without some faint show of superstitious
was threading a maze of currents and eddies, with a view to the more certain
was traced with long channels of reddened rust, while all her spars and her
washing their faces.  But in all vessels this broom business is the
watch below, I ascended to the overclouded deck; and there, dashed upon the
watches, his officers and men must have some nearer things to think of than
watchmakers.
water, and thin scattered puffs of vapor hovering over it, and suffusingly
water, but was not perceived by any one on board till the moment when the
water, carelessly and unthinkingly drove home every yarn: I say so strange a
water-proof match keg, after many failures Starbuck contrived to ignite the
waters, butter was at a premium, and therefore was not for him, a subaltern;
waves were storied with his deeds; there also was that tragic spot where the
waves with thoughts, that at last he loses his identity; takes the mystic
waves, that almost seemed threatening to cut it in two; the sudden profound
waves.  The tranced ship indolently rolls; the drowsy trade winds blow;
way alarmed, or indeed knew at all of our vicinity.  One of the men selected
we cannot give these Babel builders priority over the Egyptians.  And that the
weaving away at the Fates.  There lay the fixed
wedge aside.  I would up heart, were it not like lead.  But my whole clock's
well done; almost drained.  That way it went, this way it comes.  Hand it me
well nigh ineffable was it, that I almost despair of putting it in a
well nigh the whole of this passage being attended by very prosperous breezes,
well-nigh as large and stout as any that ever sailed out of your old Callao to
went gently rolling before it.  Tashtego reporting that the whales had gone
were believed to have come from the Holy Land by an underground passage);
were but the plainest tokens of its intensity.  For, at such times, crazy
were eyeing him, for he looked not unlike the weather horizon when a storm is
were hurrying to execute the order,
were locked up in my chest.  I looked round me tranquilly and contentedly,
were of that vivid, tiger-yellow complexion peculiar to some of the aboriginal
were on the closer terms with me; and hence the interluding questions they
were possessed, that at times his hate seemed almost theirs; the White Whale
were seized up into the mizen rigging, like three quarters of meat, and there
were simultaneously quaffed down with a hiss.  Starbuck paled, and turned, and
were substituted.  For with the charts of all four oceans before him, Ahab
were the case, Stubb, as his wont in such cases, it seems, was resolved to
were thrust out; the mainyard was backed, and the three boats swung over the
were, who even in the face of these things were ready to give chase to Moby
were.  I laugh and hoot at ye, ye cricket-players, ye pugilists, ye deaf
western world, which to the eyes of the old trappers and hunters revived the
whale again came together, and the one vanquished the other.  I say I,
whale could, by the same route, pass out of the Mediterranean into the
whale face foremost.  Ha, ha!  the whale would give them squint for squint,
whale is --i.  e.  a spouting fish, with a horizontal tail.  BOOK III.
whale is, I do by no means exclude from the leviathanic brotherhood any sea
whale of the English and the right whale of the Americans.  But they precisely
whale will be elsewhere treated of at some length, with reference to
whale with a wrinkled brow and a crooked jaw; whosoever of ye raises me that
whale with natural terror, as that unexampled, intelligent malignity which,
whale's white hump the sum of all the general rage and hate felt by his whole
whale, Ahab would mutter to himself, as after poring over his charts till
whale, and harpoon had all blended together; and the whale, merely grazed by
whale, the Horned whale, and the Unicorn whale.  He is certainly a curious
whale, to keep up the supply of cheap oil for domestic employment --as some
whale-boat never admits of any such effeminacy; and therefore as in gamming a
whale-bone; like five trip-hammers they rose and fell with regular strokes of
whale-craft, this seems as good a place as any to set down a little domestic
whale-fleet.  The large importance attached to the harpooneer's vocation is
whale.  The dancing white water made by the chase was now becoming more and
whale.  there is a deal of obscurity concerning the identity of the species
whaleman, I know by reputation, but not personally.  I shall enumerate them by
whaleman.  Forced into familiarity, then, with such prodigies as these; and
whalemen, especially among those whaling nations not sailing under the
whalemen, on a long three or four years' voyage, as often happens, the sum of
whaler do when she meets another whaler in any sort of decent weather?  She
whales enjoy great individual celebrity --nay, you may call it an ocean-wide
whales, in case any should be discovered.  For, spite of her leak, and spite
whales, shall hereafter be caught and marked, then he can readily be
whales, without any regard to what may be the nature of their structure in
whales.  Above, you have all the Leviathans of note.  But there are a rabble
whales; and have presented them with their passports to quit the kingdom of
whaling captains, on board a Nantucket ship in the harbor of Oahu, Sandwich
whaling ground) the command of the ship's deck is also his; therefore the
whaling life, a sublime uneventfulness invests you; you hear no news; read
what end; when though, according to genesis, the angels indeed consorted
what is called a sword-mat, for an additional lashing to our boat.  So still
what may be called the secret part of the tragedy about to be narrated, never
what, men, old Rad's investment must go for it!  he had best cut away his part
whatever way-side, antecedent, extra prospects were his, ere a particular set
whelmed.
when I was before the mast.  There's the fruits of promotion now; there's the
when extreme political superstitions invest them, that in some royal
when for a minute or so the two boats were pretty near to each other, Stubb
when the boats diverged, as soon as I clapt eye on 'em, I thought so.  Aye,
when the two irons, both marked by the same private cypher, have been taken
when with ivory leg he stepped ashore at last, no Nantucketer thought him
whence that voice dropped like a wing.  High aloft in the cross-trees was that
whence, in peculiar moods, comes that gigantic ghostliness over the soul at
where the lines attached to
where's your girls?  Who but a fool would take his left hand by his right,
whereby, even in the limitless, uncharted seas, he revealed his identity, at
whether they joined him or not.  That was the last night he should spend in
whether those jolly lads bethink them of what they are dancing over.  I'll
which districts are twelve columns for the twelve months; and horizontally
which had made Steelkilt Charlemagne, had he been born son to Charlemagne's
which he had been betrayed.  At his leisure, he employed the interval in
which he sailed from home.  In that up and down manly book of old-fashioned
which the mystic sign gives forth such hints; yet with me, as with the colt,
which this spermaceti was really derived.  BOOK I. ( Folio), CHAPTER II.
which we had just before entered, and in which we had struck three of his
which, instead of impatiently enduring ashore, he would spend in a
while out of port, all hands had concluded the customary business of fitting
while the whales of this order, though smaller than those of the former
while yet all a-rush to encounter the whale, could see naught in that brute
while, with a dexterous, off-handed daring, unknown in any other vocation,
whirled them round and round in his blazing brain, till the very throbbing of
whispered Stubb, what's that for?  methinks it rings most vast, but hollow.
white coral beach, surrounded by his warlike but still deferential cubs.  In
white curds of the whale's direful wrath into the serene, exasperating
white fire upon the prairie, in which, unconsumed, we were burning; immortal
white water; if ye see but a bubble, sing out.  All this while Tashtego,
white whale then, Tash?  Does he fan-tail a little curious, sir, before he
white whale, I say, resumed Ahab, as he threw down
white-headed whale, with three holes punctured in his starboard fluke --look
white-shrouded bear or shark.  Bethink thee of the albatross, whence come those
white-turbaned old man at their head, All ready there, Fedallah?  Ready,
whiteness it is which imparts such an abhorrent mildness, even
whiteness that so stirred me?  Second: To the native Indian of Peru, the
whiteness which invests him, a thing expressed by the name he bears.  The
whither leads his shaft by the ever shifting, muffled sound of his pick?  Who
who become famous more through their infinite inferiority to the choice hidden
who by those rumors, at least, had heard of the White Whale, few of those
who so long did'st lurk in the Oriental straits of that name, whose spout was
who, as a set, rather incline to the opinion that by rights the ship's cabin
whole book is but a draught --nay, but the draught of a draught.  Oh Time,
wholly by Polynesians.  In the short gam that ensued she gave us strong news
whose exported furs give robes to Tartar Emperors; they mirror the paved
whose sole knowledge of the leviathan is restricted to the ignoble monster
wicked is he.  Like Mark Antony, for days and days along his green-turfed,
widely contrasting serenity of those seductive seas in which we South fishers
widest expanses of water between those grounds he could, by his art, so place
wild barbarians, whose red painted faces flash from out their peltry wigwams;
wild horses, whose pastures in those days were only fenced by the Rocky
wild rumors of all sorts fail to exaggerate, and still the more horrify the
will derive the cause of that peculiarity of sea-life just mentioned.
will hold true concerning whaling vessels crossing each other's track on the
will not wholly account for it) that makes the White Tower of London tell so
will strike, strike through
will were Ahab's, so long as Ahab kept his magnet at Starbuck's brain;
will ye?  pull, can't ye?  pull, won't ye?  Why in the name of gudgeons and
will, forced itself against gods and devils into a kind of self-assumed,
wind.  The strange, upheaving, lifting tendency of the taffrail breeze filling
windlass; when, resolved at last no longer to retreat, bethinking him that
windward, while an occasional squall of sleet or snow would all but congeal
winter that dreary, howling Patagonian Cape; then it was, that his torn body
wish I could fist a bit of old-fashioned beef in the forecastle, as I used to
with Stubb and Flask, had thus far been eyeing his superior with increasing
with a hooked, Roman bill sublime.  At intervals, it arched forth its vast
with a small compass he kept there for the purpose of counteracting the
with glaring eyes Ahab would burst from his state room, as though escaping
with him, plunged headlong again, and went down.  Meantime, at the first tap
with his own frantic stampings; considering that the particular disaster to
with housings more resplendent than gold and silver-beaters could have
with malice in it; all that cracks the sinews and cakes the brain; all the
with not feeling sufficient interest in the voyage; half-hinting that they
with one white tooth evilly protruding from its steel-like lips.  A rumpled
with several more examples, one way or another known to me, of the great
with some touch of pleasantness, Dinner, Mr. Stubb, and descends the
with such undeviating exactitude, that no ship ever sailed her course, by any
with the daughters of men, the devils also, add the uncanonical Rabbins,
with the one then known in England as the Greenland or Right Whale.  It was
with their lances, and the rest of the ship's company formed a circle round
with this appellative of Whalebone whales , it is of great importance to
within the very heart of this spiked Hotel de Cluny where we here stand
without speaking he remained doggedly rooted to his seat, till at last the
without superstitious accompaniments, were sufficiently hardy not to flee
without the occurrence of the least fatality, had it not been for the brutal
without uttering a single sound; when, after all this silence, his unearthly
won't be flogged." "Turn to!" roared the Captain.  Steelkilt glanced round
won't do it --let him go--cut him down: d'ye hear?"  But as the junior mates
wonderful old man!  I don't think it so strange, after all, on that
wonders of the world, that without some hints touching the plain facts,
wondrous habitude of unconscious skill the whaleman will maintain an erect
wondrous power and velocity in swimming, as to defy all present pursuit from
woods, burying himself in the hollow of a tree, lived out the winter there,
wordless ahab stood up to the blast.  Even when wearied nature seemed
words, but the tone conveyed more of deep helpless sadness than the insane
wore on; --Ahab now shut up within his cabin; anon, pacing the deck, with the
working at the pumps at wide and easy intervals; but no good luck came; more
world seems formed in love, the invisible spheres were formed in fright.  But
world!  Tell them to address all future letters to the Pacific ocean!  and
world's a ball, as you scholars have it; and so 'tis right to make one
world; were the logs for one voyage of the entire whale fleet carefully
would at times be descried.  During all this blackness of the elements, Ahab,
would be hard to say, seeing that the Yankees in one day, collectively, kill
would be hard to say.  It does not seemed to be used like the blade of the
would bury him in bubbles and foam.  "What do you want of me?  cried the
would but admit one man at a time.  And here, gentlemen, the foul play of
would come round at two o'clock, in the morning of the third day from that in
would have turned from in disgust.  I will not strip these men, thought Ahab,
would murder him.  But, gentlemen, the fool had been branded for the slaughter
would not be here, and at once, perfected.  You cannot but plainly see that I
would seem the very man to dart his iron and lift his lance against the most
would seem, was popularly supposed to be derived from a creature identical
wrest from him the command.  From even the barely hinted imputation of
wrinkled brow off the Persian Gulf, or in the Bengal Bay, or China Seas, or
wrinkled brow, till it almost seemed that while he himself was marking out
yard!  It's worse than being in the whirled woods, the last day of the year;
ye then at the fiery hunt?
ye!  d'ye see this Spanish ounce of gold? --holding up a broad bright coin to
ye, Cabaco?  They are stowaways, Mr. Flask.  Pull, pull, my fine
ye, I'll keep ye there till ye're sick of it.  Down ye go." "Shall we?"
ye, and let's have a taste.  By the Lord, it's worth bottling!  I tell ye
ye, that heard the hum of the old Quakeress's knitting-needles fifty miles at
ye, whosoever of ye raises me that same white whale, he shall have this gold
ye, ye young exiled royalties; and from your grim sire only will the old
yet Ahab's larger, darker, deeper part remains unhinted.  But vain to
yet given that a hidden hero is there; for where there is smoke, must be
yet that hair-turbaned Fedallah remained a muffled mystery to the last.
yet they also have the privilege of lounging in the rear.  If Stubb even, who
yonder, boys, there's another in the sky --lurid-like, ye see, all else pitch
you cannot successfully shoot at them from
you dance?  Form, now, Indian-file, and gallop into the double-shuffle?
you dogs!  So, so, so, then; --softly, softly!  That's it -- that's it!  long
you know.  I don't know that, my little man; I never yet saw him kneel.
you may carry your house aloft with you, in the shape of a watch-coat; but
you will yet see that-- Ha!  boy, come back?  bad pennies come not sooner.
you, sir sailor, that we have by no means overlooked your delicacy in not
you, ye ship-owners of Nantucket!  Beware of enlisting in your vigilant
you.  Take that hammer away, or look to yourself."  But the predestinated mate
young Platonists have a notion that their vision is imperfect; they are
your boats, my boys, And by your braces stand, And we'll have one of those
your cotton bags!  I have no long gun to reach ye.  Come, Ahab's compliments
your knives in two -- that's all.  Take it easy --why don't ye take it easy, I
your legs, as it were, swim the hugest monsters of the sea, even as ships
your white squalls, they.  White squalls?  white whale, shirr!
zone.  The sum is, that at particular seasons within that breadth and along
