

































     Come on, Queequeg, said I, all right.  There's Mrs. Hussey.
     Dropping his harpoon, the brawny savage caught him in his arms, and by an
     Father Mapple rose, and in a mild voice of
     For the instant he almost turns to flee again.  But he rallies.  "I seek a
     For this reason a sleeping apartment should never be furnished with a fire,
     Hallo, you sir, cried the Captain, a gaunt rib of the sea, stalking up to
     He rings every coin to find a counterfeit.  Not a forger, any way, he mutters;
     He say, said I, that you came near kill-e that man there, pointing to the
     He skulks about the wharves of Joppa, and seeks a ship that's bound for
     I had not been seated very long ere a man
     In this same New Bedford there stands a
     It was quite late in the evening when the
     Nothing more happened on the passage worthy
     Queequeg was a native of Kokovoko, an
     Returning to the Spouter-Inn from the
     Stepping to the kitchen door, I uttered the word cod with great emphasis,
     That ship, my friends, was the first of recorded smugglers!  the contraband
     We had lain thus in bed, chatting and
     Woe to him who, in this world, courts not dishonor!  Woe to him who would not
     and Jonah is put down for his passage.  "Point out my state-room, Sir," says
     and self-created darkness into the imposed and coarse outer gloom of the
     and without a passport; whereas Virtue, if a pauper, is stopped at all
     clam for two, disappeared.  Queequeg, said I, do you think that we can
     deep itself.  The Nantucketer, he alone resides and riots on the sea; he
     hand, whereas I had understood Peter Coffin to say it was on the starboard.
     himself with this, that spite of all his pains and pangs, he will still
     his sake this great tempest was upon them; they mercifully turn from him,
     infallibly straight itself, it but made obvious the false, lying levels
     that they are so shut up, belted about, every way inclosed, surrounded, and
     the island.  On one side was a coral reef; on the other a low tongue of
     the whale shall hold him in the smallest of his bowel's wards.  Screwed at
     what you tink now, --Didn't our people laugh?  At last, passage paid, and
     wheelbarrow next morning, Monday, after disposing of
     which a noah's flood would not interrupt, though it overwhelmed all the
-- The ribs and terrors in the whale, Arched over me a dismal gloom, While
--chiefly known to me by Thy rod --mortal or immortal, here I die.  I have
--here, here lies my beloved; ye know not the desolation that broods in bosoms
--top-gallant delight is to him, who acknowledges no law or lord, but the
.  This Marble Is
.  This Tablet Is erected to his
.. < chapter X 24  A BOSOM FRIEND >
.. < chapter ix 23  THE SERMON >
.. < chapter vii 26  THE CHAPEL >
.. < chapter viii 2  THE PULPIT >
.. < chapter xi 24  NIGHTGOWN >
.. < chapter xii 21  BIOGRAPHICAL >
.. < chapter xiii 2  WHEELBARROW >
.. < chapter xiv 23  NANTUCKET >
.. < chapter xv 27  CHOWDER >
.. <p 33 >
.. <p 34 >
.. <p 35 >
.. <p 36 >
.. <p 37 >
.. <p 38 >
.. <p 39 >
.. <p 40 >
.. <p 41 >
.. <p 42 >
.. <p 43 >
.. <p 44 >
.. <p 45 >
.. <p 46 >
.. <p 47 >
.. <p 48 >
.. <p 48 >
.. <p 49 >
.. <p 50 >
.. <p 51 >
.. <p 52 >
.. <p 52 >
.. <p 53 >
.. <p 54 >
.. <p 54 >
.. <p 55 >
.. <p 56 >
.. <p 57 >
.. <p 58 >
.. <p 59 >
.. <p 60 >
.. <p 61 >
.. <p 61 >
.. <p 62 >
.. <p 63 >
.. <p 63 >
.. <p 64 >
.. <p 65 >
.. <p 66 >
Almighty's bidding.  And what was that, shipmates?  To preach the Truth to the
And so it turned out; Mr. Hosea Hussey being from home, but leaving Mrs.
Atlantic, Pacific, and Indian oceans.  One and all, they were harpooned and
Between the marble cenotaphs on either hand of the pulpit, the wall which
Canaan; a land, also, of corn and wine.  The streets do not run with milk;
Captain in the cabin, all the sailors for the moment desist from hoisting in
Captain laughs lowly to himself, and mutters something about the doors of
Chapel, I found Queequeg there quite alone; he having left the Chapel before
Christians could be both miserable and wicked; infinitely more so, than all
Church.  How then could I unite with
Delightful inducements to embark, fine chance for promotion, it seems -- aye,
Desolation, off Patagonia, November 1st,
Eddystone lighthouse.  Look at it --a mere hillock, and elbow of sand; all
English overswarm all India, and hang out their blazing banner from the sun;
Entering, I found a small scattered congregation of sailors, and sailors'
Eternity.  But what then?  Methinks we have hugely mistaken this matter of
God came upon him in the whale, and swallowed him down to living gulfs of
God of breezes fair or foul is first invoked for favorable winds.  Yes, the
God.  Now, Queequeg is my fellow man.  And what do I wish that this Queequeg
He answered no, not yet; and added that he was fearful Christianity, or
He drooped and fell away from himself for a moment; then lifting his face to
He seemed to take to me quite as naturally and unbiddenly as I to him; and
His father was a High Chief, a King; his uncle a High Priest; and on the
Horn, that is --which was the only way he could get there --thrown among people
However, by dint of beating about a little in the dark, and now and then
Hussey entirely competent to attend to all his affairs.  Upon making known our
Hussey hurried towards an open door leading to the kitchen, and bawling out
Hussey's clam and cod announcement, I thought I would try a little experiment.
I began to be sensible of strange feelings.  I felt a melting in me.  No
I called my God, When I could scarce believe him mine, He bowed his ear to my
I guess he's the adulterer that broke jail in old Gomorrah, or belike, one of
I had found thrown over me upon waking in the morning, I thought this
I observed that he carried no umbrella, and certainly had not come in his
I told him that whaling was my own design, and informed him of my intention
I, Queequeg, you might have known better than that, one would think.  Didn't
In what census of living creatures, the dead of mankind are included; why it
Indian Ocean or Pacific, who fail to make a Sunday visit to the spot.  I am
Insurance Companies pay death-forfeitures upon immortals; in what eternal,
Jonah -- And God had prepared a great fish to swallow up Jonah.  Shipmates,
Jonah before you to be copied for his sin but I do place him before you as a
Jonah fairly takes out his purse, prudent suspicions still molest the Captain.
Jonah now.  "I'm travel-weary; I need sleep." "Thou look'st like it," says
Jonah sees the rearing bowsprit pointing high upward, but soon beat downward
Jonah's prodigy of ponderous misery drags him drowning down to sleep.  And
Jonah.  While he was speaking these words, the howling of the shrieking,
Joppa, the modern Jaffa, shipmates, is on the most easterly coast of the
Joppa.  But God is everywhere; Tarshish he never reached.  As we have seen,
King's own house --the Captain coolly proceeds to wash his hands in the punch
Life and Death.  Methinks that what they call my shadow here on earth is my
Look now at the wondrous traditional story of how this island was settled by
Lord came a second time; and Jonah, bruised and beaten --his ears, like two
Lord his God, and is only a patriot to heaven.  Delight is to him, whom all
Mapple enjoyed such a wide reputation for sincerity and sanctity, that I
Mastodon, clothed with such portentousness of unconscious power, that his
Mediterranean, the Syrian; and Tarshish or Cadiz more than two thousand miles
Memory By his Sister.  Sacred To the Memory of Robert Long, Willis Ellery,
Midships!  midships!  There was a low rumbling of heavy sea-boots among the
Nantucket are carried about like bits of the true cross in Rome; that people
Nantucket!  Take out your map and look at it.  See what a real corner of the
Nathan Coleman, Walter Canny, Seth Macy, and Samuel Gleig, Forming one of the
No, thought I, there must be some sober reason for this thing; furthermore,
Oh, sweet friends!  hearken to me.  It was made of small juicy clams, scarcely
Pagan, which even his uncouthness could not altogether maim.  He looked like
Poland.  Let America add Mexico to Texas, and pile Cuba upon Canada; let the
Puritanic sands.
Queequeg no kill-e so small-e fish-e; Queequeg kill-e big whale!  Look you,
Queequeg smoking by me, even in bed, because he seemed to be full of such
Queequeg, for his own private reasons, preferred his own harpoon.  Shifting
Queequeg, what in thunder do you mean by that?  Don't you know you might have
Rokovoko, and its commander --from all accounts, a very stately punctilious
Sacred To the Memory of The late Captain Ezekiel Hardy, Who in the bows of
Shipmates, it is a two-stranded lesson; a lesson to us all as sinful men,
Spain; as far by water, from Joppa, as Jonah could possibly have sailed in
Still New Bedford is a queer place.  Had it not been for us whalemen, that
Strong intuitions of the man assure the mariners he can be no innocent.  In
Talbot, Who, at the age of eighteen, was lost overboard, Near the Isle of
Tarshish.  There lurks, perhaps, a hitherto unheeded meaning here.  By all
Tartar air! --how I spurned that turnpike earth! --that common highway all over
The face of my Deliverer God.  My song for ever shall record That terrible,
The landlord of the Spouter-Inn had recommended us to his cousin Hosea Hussey
There was excellent blood in his veins --royal stuff; though
This Tablet Is erected to his Memory by His Widow.  Shaking off the sleet
Thought he, it's a wicked world in all meridians; I'll die a pagan.
Washington's head, as seen in the popular busts of him.  It had the same long
Whaleman's Chapel, and few are the moody fishermen, shortly bound for the
Yes, Ishmael, the same fate may be thine.  But somehow I grew merry again.
You cannot hide the soul.  Through all his unearthly tattooings, I thought I
You must go to New Bedford to see a brilliant wedding; for, they say, they
a Hebrew," he cries --and then --"I fear the Lord the God of Heaven who hath
a hard command.  But all the things that God would have us do are hard for us
a large number of fifties being found together, that his astonishment at the
a man who had never cringed and never had had a creditor.  Whether it was,
a masterless commotion that he scarce heeds the moment when he drops seething
a noble thing is that canticle in the fish's belly!  How billow-like and
a perpendicular side ladder, like those used in mounting
a ship --as having plain precedence over a mere island King, especially in the
a ship from a boat at sea.  The wife of a whaling captain had provided the
a stove boat will make me an immortal by brevet.  Yes, there is death in this
a sure delight; and higher the top of that delight, than the bottom of the
a wicked nineveh, jonah, appalled at the hostility he should raise, fled from
about keeping a yellow warehouse on our starboard hand till we opened a white
about the thing --though in truth he was entirely so, concerning the precise
about us!  But what is this lesson that the book of Jonah teaches?
accounts Tarshish could have been no other city than the modern Cadiz.  That's
advertised, they let him pass, and he descends into the cabin.  "Who's
again towards the tormented deep.  Terrors upon terrors run shouting through
again, and every eye on the preacher.  He paused a little; then kneeling in
against the spile upon the wharf to which the ship is moored, offering five
air, the beautiful and bountiful horse-chestnuts, candelabra-wise, proffer
air; then slightly
all God's sun-lit waves rolled by, And lift me deepening down to doom.  I saw
all glittering in the clear, cold air.  Huge hills and mountains of casks on
all outward worldly ties and connexions?  Yes, for replenished with the meat
almost in one ticking of a watch, and every instant seemed on the point of
almost miraculous dexterity and strength, sent him high up bodily into the
alone, in Bible language, goes down to it in ships; to and fro ploughing it
already small area of the chapel, the architect, it seemed, had acted upon the
among which it hung.  The lamp alarms and frightens Jonah; as lying in his
among whom he was a very great favorite.  He had been a sailor and a
an excellent one.  It may seem ridiculous, but it reminded me of General
and a lesson to me as a pilot of the living God.  As sinful men, it is a
and bland deceits.  Wild he was; a very sight of sights to see; yet I began
and bowing his head lowly, with an aspect of the deepest yet manliest
and centre of all verdure.  Queequeg caught one of these young saplings
and earth --pagans and all included --can possibly be jealous of an
and earth; and"vomited out Jonah upon the dry land;" when the word of the
and every plank thunders with trampling feet right over Jonah's head; in all
and finding no speedy vent runs roaring fore and aft, till the mariners come
and gardens more opulent, than in New Bedford.  Whence came they?  how planted
and hints, doing my best to talk with him meanwhile.  At first he little
and more awful lesson which Jonah teaches to me as a pilot of
and offered a prayer so deeply devout that he seemed kneeling and praying at
and resumed my seat.  In a few moments the savory steam came forth again, but
and seek by other means to save the ship.  But all in vain; the indignant
and smoke, we went to our room together.  He made me a present of his
and snug, the more so since it was so chilly out of doors; indeed out of
and still more to me, for I am a greater sinner than ye.  And now how gladly
and then flinging the other like a lasso, caught it round the boom as it swept
and then stopping to adjust the sheath on his harpoon barbs.  I asked him why
and there's naught to staunch it; so, after sore wrestlings in his berth,
and thus an old idolator at heart, he yet lived among these Christians, wore
and tomahawk, he quietly offered me a puff.  And then we sat exchanging puffs
and we felt like getting up again, though day-break was yet some way down the
and wine of the word, to the faithful man of God, this pulpit, I see, is a
and woe to that pilot of the living God who slights it.  Woe to him whom this
answer is forced from Jonah by the hard hand of God that is upon him.  "I am
answered.  Yes; all these brave houses and flowery gardens came from the
are not without their meanings.  But Faith, like a jackal, feeds among the
are pitiful.  For when Jonah, not yet supplicating God for mercy, since he
around him, seemed to be saying to himself -- It's a mutual, joint-stock
arrayed in a decent suit, he quietly approached the pulpit.  Like most old
as an anchor and dropped into the sea; when instantly an oily calmness floats
as his own special plantation.  There is his home; there lies his business,
as if it were the lower jaw of an exasperated whale.  In the midst of this
as strange to him as though he were in the planet Jupiter; and yet he seemed
as though they were drawing nigh the odorous Moluccas instead of the
ashes!  What despair in those immovable inscriptions!  What deadly voids and
asleep or awake, I have a way of always keeping my eyes shut, in order the
assaults!  And thus have these naked Nantucketers, these sea hermits, issuing
assented to.  Then the Captain knows that Jonah is a fugitive; but at the
assented; for besides the affection I now felt for Queequeg, he was an
at Queequeg so much --for they were used to seeing cannibals like him in their
at last, standing motionless, with closed eyes, for the moment, seemed
at such times look downwards to our platters, they, on the contrary, copying
awaiting him; and the whale shoots-to all his ivory teeth, like the Lord out
away the Captain from that scent.  "I'll sail with ye," --he says, --"the
bad taste.  Halting for an instant at the foot of the ladder, and with both
be comfortable any more.  But if, like Queequeg and me in the bed, the tip
be his, who coming to lay him down, can say with his final breath --O Father!
be mine the lesson that Jonah teaches to all sinners; and therefore to ye,
be passed; and at last amid the whirl of woe he feels, a deep stupor steals
be the proprietor of one of the best kept hotels in all Nantucket, and
be true, even though to be false were salvation!  Yea, woe to him who, as the
beach, without a background.  There is more sand there than you would use in
bear a hardy helm; for lo!  the sun is breaking through; the clouds are
beating against a terrible storm off a lee coast of black rocks and snowy
bed for confidential disclosures between friends.  Man and wife, they say,
bed-clothes too, seeing that there was no fire in the room.  The more so, I
bedfellows.  I told him yes; whereat I thought he looked pleased, perhaps a
before us.  We resumed business; and while plying our spoons in the
begged him to go on and tell it.  He gladly complied.  Though at the time I
begged his pardon.  From that hour I clove to Queequeg like a barnacle; yea,
being done; those on deck rushed towards the bows, and stood eyeing the boom
being itself nicely headed, and stained with a mahogany color, the whole
being said, the High Priest opens the banquet by the immemorial ceremony of
being.  In fact take my body who will, take it I say, it is not me.  And
benches, and a still slighter shuffling of women's shoes, and all was quiet
bending over them, as if our knee-pans were warming-pans.  We felt very nice
berth his tormented eyes roll round the place, and this thus far successful
better than try pot-luck at the Try Pots.  But the directions he had given us
between billows; so at nightfall, the Nantucketer, out of sight of land,
beyond seas for a spile to stop a leak in an oil cask; that pieces of wood in
bigger than hazel nuts, mixed with pounded ship biscuit, and salted pork cut
bill; using, however, my comrade's money.  The grinning landlord, as well as
billow leaping over the bulwarks.  Wave after wave thus leaps into the ship,
black and bold, there seemed tokens of a spirit that would dare a thousand
black, and suspended by asses' ears, swung from the cross-trees of an old
bliss; why all the living so strive to hush all the dead; wherefore but the
boats and captured cod; and at last, launching a navy of great ships on the
boats' crews of the Ship Eliza, Who were towed out of sight by a Whale, On
boatswain calls all hands to lighten her; when boxes, bales, and jars are
boisterously grand!  We feel the floods surging over us; we sound with him to
boldness to his face, only looks so much the more a coward.  He will not
boom to stay it, seemed madness.  It flew from right to left, and back again,
boom was now flying from side to side, completely sweeping the entire after
bowl, thinks I to myself, I wonder now if this here has any effect on the
bowl; --taking it i suppose for a huge finger-glass.  now, said Queequeg,
breakers.  But high above the
breeching up towards the warm and pleasant sun, and all the delights of air
bright terraces of flowers upon the barren refuse rocks thrown aside at
brighter relief, and looked more expansive than it otherwise would, this I
brow, and the light leaping from his eye, made all his simple hearers look
brows as a slave before the Sultan.  Sideways leaning, we sideways darted;
bumpkin was restored.  All hands voted Queequeg a noble trump; the captain
bumpkin, running towards that officer; Capting, Capting, here's the devil.
bumpkins there, who, by their intense greenness, must have come from the heart
burglar hastening to cross the seas.  So disordered, self-condemning is his
business of whaling --a speechlessly quick chaotic bundling of a man into
but he now spoke of his native island; and, eager to hear his history, I
but hollow courtesy.  I drew my bench near him, and made some friendly signs
but ill comprehended not a few of his words, yet subsequent disclosures,
but no sooner does he hear that hollow voice, than he darts a scrutinizing
but the lock contains no key.  Hearing him foolishly fumbling there, the
but too well knew the darkness of his deserts, --when wretched Jonah cries out
by the plunging bowsprit, that for some time we did not notice the jeering
canes in land tornadoes.  So full of this reeling scene were we, as we stood
canoes, after a perilous passage they discovered the island, and there they
captain had not looked up to jonah, though the man now stands before him;
carpenters and coopers, with blended noises of fires and forges to melt the
carriage, for his tarpaulin hat ran down with melting sleet, and his great
case with swinging ones, were of cloth-covered rope, only the rounds were of
casks were piled upon her wharves, and side by side the world-wandering whale
certain mild gleams of a newly developing bloom --the spring verdure peeping
chambers of my soul are all in crookedness!"  Like one who after a night of
chapel with a handsome pair of red worsted man-ropes for this ladder, which,
chaplain had not yet arrived; and there these silent islands of men and women
chaplain.  Yes, it was the famous Father Mapple, so called by the whalemen,
chest heaved as with a ground-swell; his tossed arms seemed the warring
church to the larboard, and then keeping that on the larboard hand till we
clammy reception in the winter time, ain't it, Mrs Hussey?  But being in a
clattering overboard; when the wind is shrieking, and the men are yelling,
clearing away the stern boat, Queequeg, stripped to the waist, darted from
closed eyes,
coast of Labrador.  As it is, parts of her back country are enough to frighten
cold, for there is no quality in this world that is not what it is merely by
comfortableness of sharing a pipe and a blanket with a real friend.  With our
comforted for those who we nevertheless maintain are dwelling in unspeakable
commodores of this earth, ever stands forth his own inexorable self.  Delight
communing with God and himself.  But again he leaned over towards the people,
companionship; always equal to himself.  Surely this was a touch of fine
complaints -- No more the whale did me confine.  With speed he flew to my
confabulations, what little nappishness remained in us altogether departed,
confess himself suspected; but that itself is strong suspicion.  So he makes
confession; whereupon the mariners became more and more appalled, but still
congregation, I knew not; but so many are the unrecorded accidents in the
conscious of so living or so striving.  So soon as I hear that such or such a
consternation, Queequeg dropped deftly to his knees, and crawling under the
content to toil in the shipyards of foreign cities, Queequeg disdained no
continual tolling of a bell in a ship that is foundering at sea in a fog --in
contrast.  Nothing exists in itself.  If you flatter yourself that you are all
contrivance, considering what manner of chapel it was, seemed by no means in
convicts' cells being never allowed to be locked within.  All dressed and
cottage, this Captain marches in, and being assigned the post of honor,
could attend to no business that day, at least none but a supper and a bed.
could not suspect him of courting notoriety by any mere tricks of the stage.
could prevail.  But Queequeg vowed a vow.  Alone in his canoe, he paddled off
country's phrase, that we were bosom friends; he would gladly die for me, if
covered his face with his hands, and so remained kneeling, till all the
creation's final day.  And the women of New Bedford, they bloom like their own
crouching manner for some time, when all at once I thought I would open my
cry, Jonah staggers to his feet, and stumbling to the deck, grasps a shroud,
darkened, doleful day read the fate of the whalemen who had gone before me,
dauntlessness, and his wild desire to visit Christendom, the captain at last
dead lie buried beneath the green grass; who standing among flowers can say
declared everlasting war with the mightiest animated mass that has survived
deep.  Is not the main-truck higher than the kelson is low?  Delight is to
deliverance of him from the sea and the whale.  Shipmates, I do not place
dented with the marks of slavish heels and hoofs; and turned me to admire the
describing Jonah's sea-storm, seemed tossed by a storm himself.  His deep
descried, and the bow must bear the earliest brunt.  From thence it is the
description of his person.  He reads, and looks from Jonah to the bill;
deserted wharf the uncheered ship for Tarshish, all careening, glides to sea.
desire to see something more of Christendom than a specimen whaler or two.
desires for a supper and a bed, Mrs. Hussey, postponing further scolding for
devils.  And besides all this, there was a certain lofty bearing about the
dexterity, hand over hand, mounted the steps as if ascending the main-top of
died sixty round centuries ago; how it is that we still refuse to be
discernment detects crime in any, but whose cupidity exposes it only in the
disobeying ourselves, wherein the hardness of obeying God consists.  With
does Jonah's deep sealine sound!  what a pregnant lesson to us is this
doom, and with swift slantings tore him along"into the midst of the seas,"
door flew back upon admitting him, a quick regardful eyeing of him by all
down among the sailors, and made a whaleman of him.  But like Czar Peter
down in the stern, paddle low in hand; and when the ship was gliding by,
dragged up hither from the bottom of the sea.  Can Herr Alexander perform a
dreadful punishment is just.  He leaves all his deliverance to God, contenting
dreadful storm comes on, the ship is like to break.  But now when the
drunken revelry hies to his bed, still reeling, but with conscience yet
dusty as he is, Jonah throws himself into his berth, and finds the little
elements at work; and the thunders that rolled away from off his swarthy
embalmed head; took out his enormous tobacco wallet, and groping under the
emblematical harpoons round yonder lofty mansion, and your question will be
ended with his pipe's last dying puff, Queequeg embraced me, pressed his
endlessness, yea, the intolerableness of all earthly effort.  Gaining the
enthusiasm, -- but oh!  shipmates!  on the starboard hand of every woe, there is
entirely at his ease; preserving the utmost serenity; content with his own
ere he judge him openly.  He charges him thrice the usual sum; and it's
ere he touched a deck.  How plainly he's a fugitive!  no baggage, not a
evening shades and phantoms gathering round the casements, and peering in
ever this earth's foremost part; all the rest comes in its rear; the pulpit
every ropeyarn tingling like a wire; the two tall masts buckling like Indian
exactly how to take them.  At first they are overawing; their calm
experienced harpooneer, and as such, could not fail to be of great usefulness
eyes; for when between sheets, whether by day or by night, and whether
face into an unearthly expression of disdain, ah!  him bevy small-e fish-e;
face of Falsehood!  That was it!  This, shipmates, this is that other lesson;
face that little negro idol of his; peering hard into its face, and with a
fashioned pulpits, it was a very lofty one, and since a regular stairs to
fear the Lord God then!  Straightway, he now goes on to make a full
feat like that?  In New Bedford, fathers, they say, give whales for dowers to
feature of the place, borrowed from the chaplain's former sea-farings.
feel his own identity aright except his eyes be closed; as if darkness were
fellow beings should be so companionable; as though a white man were anything
fellow man what I would have my fellow man to do to me -- that is the will of
fiddle-headed beak.  What could be more full of meaning? --for the pulpit is
finally the deliverance and joy of Jonah.  As with all sinners among men,
fish; and from the shuddering cold and blackness of the sea, the whale came
fishery, and so plainly did several women present wear the countenance if not
floating forts; even pirates and privateers, though following the sea as
flowering youth, for among all the fissures of his wrinkles, there shone
flying scud and dark-rolling clouds, there floated a little isle of sunlight,
foam-fountain, Queequeg seemed to drink and reel with me.  His dusky nostrils
following, but I do not pretend to quote: -- Sacred To the Memory of John
foot capsized and sank his canoe; climbed up the chains; and throwing
for his own harpoon, because it was of assured stuff, well tried in many a
for it in the entry, and seeming to hear nothing but the word clam, Mrs.
for me to join him; but well knowing what was to follow, I deliberated a
for the Customs --"who's there?"  Oh!  how that harmless question mangles Jonah!
forehead against mine, and blowing out the light, we rolled over from each
formed its back was adorned with a large painting representing a gallant ship
forth even beneath February's snow.  No one having previously heard his
found an empty ivory casket, --the poor little Indian's skeleton.  What wonder,
freckled woman with yellow hair and a yellow gown, standing in the porch of
from my ice-glazed hat and jacket, I seated myself near the door, and
from that wild pipe of his, and keeping it regularly passing between us.  If
from the Humane and Magnanimous Societies.  He only asked for water --fresh
from the other, as if each silent grief were insular and incommunicable.  The
from the water, Queequeg now took an instant's glance around him, and
from their ant-hill in the sea, overrun and conquered the watery world like
from this sure Keel of the Ages.  And eternal delight and deliciousness will
from which beamed forth an angel's face; and this bright face shed a distinct
frontiers.  So Jonah's Captain prepares to test the length of Jonah's purse,
fugitive finds no refuge for his restless glance.  But that contradiction in
full of fine maples --long avenues of green and gold.  And in August, high in
furiously they mob him with their questions.  "What is thine occupation?
furls his sails, and lays him to his rest, while under his very pillow rush
future.  Yes, we became very wakeful; so much so that our recumbent
gale howls louder; then, with one hand raised invokingly to God, with the
gangway, there!  side away to larboard--larboard gangway to starboard!
gentleman, at least for a sea captain --this commander was invited to the
girls breathe such musk, their sailor sweethearts smell them miles off shore,
giving utterance to a long-drawn gurgling whistle of astonishment.  He would
glance.  "We sail with the next coming tide," at last he slowly answered,
glances of the passengers, a lubber-like assembly, who marvelled that two
good Christian; born and bred in the bosom of the infallible Presbyterian
grave.  As well might those tablets stand in the cave of Elephanta as here.
great Pilot Paul has it, while preaching to others is himself a castaway!
great expedition: when leaning back a moment and bethinking me of Mrs.
great hurry to resume scolding the man in the purple shirt, who was waiting
green sapling; even then, in Queequeg's ambitious soul, lurked a strong
grow naturally; that they import Canada thistles; that they have to send
guilty eye, skulking from his God; prowling among the shipping like a vile
had made a harpooneer of him, and that barbed iron was in lieu of a sceptre
hammock, away we went down to the Moss, the little Nantucket packet
hands grasping the ornamental knobs of the man-ropes, Father Mapple cast a
harpooneer in his youth, but for many years past had dedicated his life to the
hat-box, valise, or carpet-bag, --no friends accompany him to the wharf with
have reservoirs of oil in every house, and every night recklessly burn their
have their grace as well as we --though Queequeg told me that unlike us, who
he but embarks for the remotest Indies of this living earth; why the Life
he carried such a troublesome thing with him ashore, and whether all whaling
he felt a strong desire to have a few quiet puffs from his Tomahawk.  Be it
he proposed to sail about, and sow his wild oats in all four oceans.  They
head-board with our four knees drawn up close together, and our two noses
heard the engulphed, repenting prophet when he cried.  Then God spake unto the
hearts' honeymoon, lay I and Queequeg --a cosy, loving pair.
heeded them not, going along wheeling the barrow by turns, and Queequeg now
hell" --when the whale grounded upon the ocean's utmost bones, even then, God
her affrighted face from the steep gullies in the blackness overhead, aghast
herds of walruses and whales.
here placed by their surviving Shipmates.
hides among the waves, he climbs them as chamois hunters climb the Alps.  For
high Heaven, they fall to casting lots, to see for whose cause this great
highwaymen the road, they but plunder other ships, other fragments of the
him --a far, far upward, and inward delight --who against the proud gods and
him overboard; suspended a cutlass over his naked wrists; Queequeg was the
him, and at last, fully to test the truth, by referring the whole matter to
him, and the chowder being surpassingly excellent, we despatched it with
him, imputable to that adventurous maritime life he had led.  When he entered
him, leaving smooth water behind.  He goes down in the whirling heart of such
him, though now some time from home.  By hints, I asked him whether he did
him.  Yet even then beyond the reach of any plummet --"out of the belly of
himself at full length upon the deck, grappled a ringbolt there, and swore not
hint of Father Mapple, and finished the pulpit without a stairs, substituting
his boat was killed by a Sperm Whale on the coast of Japan, August 3d,
his brown tattooed legs over mine, and then drawing them back; so entirely
his canoe, still afloat, among these thickets, with its prow seaward, he sat
his chowders.  In short, he plainly hinted that we could not possibly do
his countenance yet had a something in it which was by no means disagreeable.
his father dead and gone, he being very old and feeble at the last accounts.
his father's heathens.  Arrived at last in old Sag Harbor; and seeing what
his feet on the stove hearth, and in one hand was holding close up to his
his feet, while Queequeg, turning his back upon him, lighted his tomahawk
his heathenish way.  But being now interrupted, he put up the image; and
his look, as he silently turned over the leaves of the Book once more; and,
his majesty the King, Queequeg's father.  Grace being said, -- for those people
his mission, and sought to escape his duty and his God by taking ship at
his prison.  Then Jonah prayed unto learn a weighty lesson.  For sinful as he
his soul.  In all his cringing attitudes, the God-fugitive is now too plainly
his untutored countrymen.  For at bottom --so he told me --he was actuated by a
his vessel.  the perpendicular parts of this side ladder, as is usually the
his, boldly dip into the Potluck of both worlds.  To all this I joyously
his; he owns it, as Emperors own empires; other seamen having but a right
history, could for the first time behold Father Mapple without the utmost
horns; yes, two of them, one for Queequeg, and one for me.  It's ominous,
how it is that to his name who yesterday departed for the other world, we
howling of the storm.  A brief pause ensued; the preacher slowly turned over
humility, he spake these words: Shipmates, God has laid but one hand upon
hundred gold coins for the apprehension of a parricide, and containing a
idol; offered him burnt biscuit with Queequeg; salamed before him twice or
idolator.  So I kindled the shavings; helped prop up the innocent little
illuminated by the flame of the new-lit lamp.  Whether it was that this
in his countenance.  This savage was the only person present who seemed to
in the general consciousness you feel most delightfully and unmistakably warm.
in this famous town.  Soon I proposed a social smoke; and, producing his pouch
in which to carry his heavy chest to his boarding house.  Not to seem ignorant
in, in all New England.  It is a land of oil, true enough; but not like
indeed the proper element of our essences, though light be more congenial to
indifference of his
indifference speaking a nature in which there lurked no civilized hypocrisies
injured eye, and carrying on a brisk scolding with a man in a purple woollen
insignificant bit of black wood?  Impossible!  But what is worship? --to do the
intensity has warmed the air, it then only glows to be looked at; the
interest, because there were certain engrafted clerical peculiarities about
into countries where God does not reign, but only the Captains of this earth.
into the wall on either side the pulpit.  Three of them ran something like the
into the yawning jaws
is its prow.
is that a universal proverb says of them, that
is that what you mean, Mrs. Hussey?  says I; but that's a rather cold and
is to him whose strong arms yet support him, when the ship of this base
is, Jonah does not weep and wail for direct deliverance.  He feels that his
island far away to the West and South.  It is not down in any map; true
island of Rokovoko, it seems, at their wedding feasts express the fragrant
it fast; and then shoulders the barrow and marches up the wharf.  Why, said
it must symbolize something unseen.  Can it be, then, that by that act of
it seems, had lent him one,
it.  Here was a man some twenty thousand miles from home, by the way of Cape
its axis against the side, a swinging lamp slightly oscillates in Jonah's
jack-knife gently whittling away at its nose, meanwhile humming to himself in
joints in the present instance seemed unnecessary.  For I was not prepared to
jonah gasps.  then, in that contracted hole, sunk, too, beneath the ship's
killed that chap?  What him say?  said Queequeg, as he mildly turned to me.
knocking up a peaceable inhabitant to inquire the way, we at last came to
known.  The sailors mark him; more and more certain grow their suspicions of
land like themselves, without seeking to draw their living from the bottomless
land, covered with mangrove thickets that grew out into the water.  Hiding
lap began counting the pages with deliberate regularity; at every fiftieth
last bales received, the lamp, flame and all, though in slight motion, still
leads the world.  From thence it is the storm of God's quick wrath is first
lengths in spermaceti candles.  In summer time, the town is sweet to see;
lesson to us all, because it is a story of the sin, hard-heartedness,
lighted his pipe, and leaning against the bulwarks, and mildly eyeing those
like a flash he darted out; gained her side; with one backward dash of his
like another world, more strangely than the moon would to an Earthsman.  With
like oysters observing the sun through the water, and thinking that thick
like these.  What bitter blanks in those black-bordered marbles which cover no
likewise another answer to a question not put by them, but the unsolicited
little Moss came snugly to anchor, and Queequeg and I went ashore; so we
little complimented.  We then turned over the book together, and I endeavored
little like a gallows.  Perhaps I was over sensitive to such impressions at
livelihood!  They first caught crabs and quohogs in the sand; grown bolder,
lonely room; the fire burning low, in that mild stage when, after its first
look towards His holy temple.  And here, shipmates, is true and faithful
look upwards, and then with a truly sailorlike but still reverential
look, that had there been policemen in
loud lament the parents saw their child borne out of sight over the wide
love once comes to bend them.  For now I liked nothing better than to have
luggage safe, we stood on board the schooner.  Hoisting sail, it glided down
made a corner three points to the starboard, and that done, then ask the first
made an utter island of by the ocean, that to their very chairs and tables
made the sea and the dry land!"  Fear him, O Jonah?  Aye, well mightest thou
magnanimity of the sea which will permit no records.  At the same
maintains a permanent obliquity with reference to the room; though, in truth,
make out a supper for us both on one clam?  However, a warm savory steam from
man gives himself out for a philosopher, I conclude that, like the dyspeptic
man we met where the place was: these crooked directions of his very much
man!  Oh!  most contemptible and worthy of all scorn; with slouched hat and
many inland reapers and mowers, who go into the farmers' meadows armed with
maternal side he boasted aunts who were the wives of unconquerable warriors.
me.  I'll try a pagan friend, thought I, since Christian kindness has proved
meanest thou, O sleeper!  arise!"  Startled from his lethargy by that direful
millions in China.  He lives on the sea, as prairie cocks in the prairie; he
mimicking him behind his back.  I thought the bumpkin's hour of doom was come.
ministry.  At the time I now write of, Father Mapple was in the hardy winter
minutes more, and he rose again, one arm still striking out, and with the
minutes or more he was seen swimming like a dog, throwing his long arms
misgiving.  A sort of crick was in my neck as I gazed up to the two remaining
model for repentance.  Sin not; but if you do, take heed to repent of it like
moment whether, in case he invited me, I would comply or otherwise.  I was a
money, how much is that, --I'll pay now."  For it is particularly written,
more appals him.  The floor, the ceiling, and the side, are all awry.  "Oh!  so
more dignified than a whitewashed negro.  But there were some boobies and
more my splintered heart and maddened hand were turned against the wolfish
more open water, the bracing breeze waxed fresh; the little Moss tossed the
more to concentrate the snugness of being in bed.  Because no man can ever
moreover he had assured us that cousin Hosea, as he called him, was famous for
mortal combat, and deeply intimate with the hearts of whales.  In short, like
movements.  He answered, to go to sea again, in his old vocation.  Upon this,
much as a single glance; but appeared wholly occupied with counting the
multitude of pages was excited.  With much interest I sat watching him.  Savage
my conscience hangs in me!" he groans, "straight upward, so it burns; but the
napping at short intervals, and Queequeg now and then affectionately throwing
need should be.  In a countryman, this sudden flame of friendship would have
needs scarcely to be told, with what feelings, on the eve of a Nantucket
nigh to drowning while yet afloat.  And ever, as the white moon shows
night's hospitalities, he made out to ask me whether we were again to be
no quarter in the truth, and kills, burns, and destroys all sin though he
nor in the spring-time do they pave them with fresh eggs.  Yet, in spite of
not propose going back, and having a coronation; since he might now consider
nothing; I leave eternity to Thee; for what is man that he should live out
notice my entrance; because he was the only one who could not read, and,
noticed these advances; but presently, upon my referring to his last
now the time of tide has come; the ship casts off her cables; and from the
now.  I asked him what might be his immediate purpose, touching his future
of God --never mind now what that command was, or how conveyed --which he found
of a certain venerable robustness entered; immediately as the storm-pelted
of a healthy old age; that sort of old age which seems merging into a second
of seamen, spurned his suit; and not all the King his father's influence
of the Try Pots, whom he asserted to
of the cloth called bearskin, I fought my way against the stubborn storm.
of the fish's belly.  But observe his prayer, and so many white bolts, upon
of the relatives of the seamen whose names appeared there were now among the
of water within the walls.  But the side ladder was not the only strange
of way through it.  Merchant ships are but extension bridges; armed ones but
of your nose or the crown of your head be slightly chilled, why then, indeed,
often lie and chat over old times till nearly morning.  Thus, then, in our
old woman, he must have broken his digester.  As I sat there in that now
omnipotent is art; which in many a district of New Bedford has superinduced
on him with a quick fear that was strange to them.  There now came a lull in
one removed, and hung up in a little space in an adjacent corner; when,
one side, New Bedford rose in terraces of streets, their ice-covered trees
one, they look so bony.  The town itself is perhaps the dearest place to live
only begins a third, and so on, for ever and for aye.  Such is the
other dragging a lifeless form.  The boat soon picked them up.  The poor
other they not unreluctantly lay hold of Jonah.  And now behold Jonah taken up
other, this way and that, and very soon were sleeping.
our clayey part.  Upon opening my eyes then, and coming out of my own pleasant
our offing gained, the Moss did homage to the blast; ducked and dived her
out from the east, and the sea is still, as Jonah carries down the gale with
out upon this special errand.  The sky had changed from clear,
over comfortable, and have been so a long time, then you cannot be said to
over him, as over the man who bleeds to death, for conscience is the wound,
over his head, and at the next jerk, the spar was that way trapped, and all
over the pulpit, deliberately drag up the ladder step by step, till the whole
page --as I fancied --stopping a moment, looking vacantly around him, and
page, said: Beloved shipmates, clinch the last verse of the first chapter of
pages of the marvellous book.  Considering how sociably we had been sleeping
paid the fare thereof" ere the craft did sail.  And taken with the context,
pair of prodigious black pots too!  Are these last throwing out oblique hints
panelled front was in the likeness of a ship's bluff bows, and the Holy Bible
paper fireboard.  By certain signs and symptoms, I thought he seemed anxious
part of the deck.  The poor fellow whom Queequeg had handled so roughly, was
passage
passage in this ship to Tarshish; how soon sail ye, sir?"  Thus far the busy
path of the boom, whipped hold of a rope, secured one end to the bulwarks,
peace with our own consciences and all the world.  But we did not go to sleep
penniless.  In this world, shipmates, sin that pays its way can travel freely,
people had departed, and he was left alone in the place.
people still happier than they were; and more than that, still better than
perilous and long voyage ended, only begins a second; and a second ended,
persuade.  And if we obey God, we must disobey ourselves; and it is in this
philosophy; though no doubt he had never heard there was such a thing as
physical isolation, he signifies his spiritual withdrawal for the time, from
pictures that were in it.  Thus I soon engaged his interest; and from that we
pilot cloth jacket seemed almost to drag him to the floor with the weight of
pipe and passed it to me for a puff.  Capting!  Capting!  yelled the
pitch, all betokening that new cruises were on the start; that one most
placed himself over against the punchbowl, and between the High Priest and
places never are.  When a new-hatched savage running wild about his native
plate now inserted into the Victory's plank where Nelson fell.  Ah, noble
pleasing to God was this conduct in Jonah, is shown in the eventual
pluck it out from under the robes of Senators and Judges.  Delight,
policy of insurance.  I was only alive to the condensed confidential
politeness.  Clam or Cod?  she repeated.  A clam for supper?  a cold clam;
pondered some time without fully comprehending the reason for this.  Father
position began to grow wearisome, and by little and little we found ourselves
power.  Nearly all joined in singing this hymn, which swelled high above the
prairie; that they wear quicksand shoes, something like Laplander snowshoes;
prefix so significant and infidel a word, and yet do not thus entitle him, if
present the whole story such as it may prove in the mere skeleton I give.
pretty
pricking him, as the plungings of the Roman race-horse but so much the more
profound desire to learn among the Christians, the arts whereby to make his
prophet!  What
pulpit, it had not escaped me that however convenient for a ship, these
puzzled us at first, especially as, at the outset, Queequeg insisted that the
quick foam from her bows, as a young colt his snortings.  How I snuffed that
raging sea, feels not the reeling timbers, and little hears he or heeds he
rather Christians, had unfitted him for ascending the pure and undefiled
rather than to appal!  Woe to him whose good name is more to him than goodness!
receiving the last items of her cargo; and as he steps on board to see its
red roses.  But roses only bloom in summer; whereas the fine carnation of
refuse resurrections to the beings who have placelessly perished without a
regularly graded retreating slope from above the brows, which were likewise
relented, and told him he might make himself at home.  But this fine young
relief, As on a radiant dolphin borne; Awful, yet bright, as lightning shone
repentance; not clamorous for pardon, but grateful for punishment.  And how
rested on the projecting piece of scroll work, fashioned after a ship's
return, --as soon as he felt himself baptized again.  For the nonce, however,
revulsion.  Nor did I at all object to the hint from Queequeg that perhaps it
roared the Captain, I'll kill-e you, you cannibal, if you try any more of
robbed a widow;" or,"Joe, do you mark him; he's a bigamist;" or,"Harry lad,
rolling off --serenest azure is at hand.  Nor was the pulpit itself without a
room; and the ship, heeling over towards the wharf with the weight of the
round it; peeped in at Behring's Straits; and in all seasons and all oceans
round the waist, and said that henceforth we were married; meaning, in his
rumor of a knocking in a tomb will terrify a whole city.  All these things
sadly vitiated, I fear, by the cannibal propensity he nourished in his
said, that though I had felt such a strong repugnance to his smoking in
said-- Clam or Cod?  What's that about Cods, ma'am?  said I, with much
same mess with me, in short to share my every hap; with both my hands in
same time resolves to help a flight that paves its rear with gold.  Yet when
sat steadfastly eyeing several marble tablets, with black borders, masoned
savage --this sea Prince of Wales, never saw the captain's cabin.  They put him
savage those old rules would not apply.  After supper, and another social chat
saw the traces of a simple honest heart; and in his large, deep eyes, fiery
say, because truly to enjoy bodily warmth, some small part of you must be
scanning him, half-pretending meanwhile to be looking out at the storm from
schooner moored at the wharf.  As we were going along the people stared; not
sea, explored this watery world; put an incessant belt of circumnavigations
sea-shells, still multitudinously murmuring of the ocean --Jonah did the
seamen in the inn.  He made no advances whatever; appeared to have no desire
seasoned with pepper and salt.  Our appetites being sharpened by the frosty
see Father Mapple after gaining the height, slowly turn round, and stooping
seeking to flee from Him.  He thinks that a ship made by men, will carry him
seemed far too premature, a thing to be much distrusted; but in this simple
seeming ignominy, if thereby he might happily gain the power of enlightening
seeming to see just how matters were, dived down and disappeared.  A few
self-collectedness of simplicity seems a Socratic wisdom.  I had noticed also
self-containing stronghold --a lofty Ehrenbreitstein, with a perennial well
serene household joy then.  I no more felt unduly concerned for the landlord's
shaggy jackets drawn about our shoulders, we now passed the Tomahawk from one
ship aboard the same vessel, get into the same watch, the same boat, the
ship, the angel seemed to say, beat on, beat on, thou noble ship, and
shipmates, as if it were a thing not to be overlooked in this history,"that he
ships did not find their own harpoons.  To this, in substance, he replied,
ships lay silent and safely moored at last; while from others came a sound of
shirt.  Get along with ye, said she to the man, or I'll be combing ye!
shrieks of the storm.  Each silent worshipper seemed purposely sitting apart
silenced me by pouring them into my trowsers' pockets.  I let them stay.  He
singular; yet, upon second thoughts, there was something almost sublime in
sit, and listen as you listen, while some one of you reads me that other
sitting up; the clothes well tucked around us, leaning against the
slanting storm without seemed to add new power to the preacher, who, when
small clams will sometimes be found adhering, as to the backs of sea
snapping into splinters.  Nothing was done, and nothing seemed capable of
so many Alexanders; parcelling out among
sociable and free and easy were we; when, at last, by reason of our
solemnity of the scene, there was a wondering gaze of incredulous curiosity
something which there was no mistaking.  Two enormous wooden pots painted
son of a King, and Queequeg budged not.  Struck by his desperate
soon, going to the table, took up a large book there, and placing it on his
sought a passage to Christian lands.  But the ship, having her full complement
spent their wages in that place also, poor Queequeg gave it up for lost.
spot of radiance upon the ship's tossed deck, something like that silver
sprung up between me and Queequeg -- especially as Peter Coffin's cock and bull
state-room ceiling almost resting on his forehead.  The air is close, and
still intently eyeing him.  "No sooner, sir?" --"Soon enough for any honest man
still shivering greenhorn.  Kill-e, cried Queequeg, twisting his tattooed
stories about him had previously so much alarmed me concerning the very person
straight out before him, and by turns revealing his brawny shoulders through
strain upon the main-sail had parted the weather-sheet, and the tremendous
strands in the mighty cable of the Scriptures.  Yet what depths of the soul
streets, -- but at seeing him and me upon such confidential terms.  But we
strike his steel tags into him; as one who in that miserable plight still
striven to be Thine, more than to be this world's, or mine own.  Yet this is
such a height would, by its long angle with the floor, seriously contract the
such tones he commenced reading the following hymn; but changing his manner
suddenly awakened fears, the swift punishment, repentance, prayers, and
sunny cold, to driving sleet and mist.  Wrapping myself in my shaggy jacket
sure that I did not.  Returning from my first morning stroll, I again sallied
swelled apart; he showed his filed and pointed teeth.  On, on we flew, and
swept overboard; all hands were in a panic; and to attempt snatching at the
table, and mechanically dividing them into two equal portions, pushed one of
tablets sympathetically caused the old wounds to bleed afresh.  Oh!  ye whose
tapping his stern in mid-somerset, the fellow landed with bursting lungs upon
tell you that they have to plant weeds there, they don't
tempest was upon them.  The lot is Jonah's; that discovered, then how
ten.  Well; when all the wedding guests were assembled at the bride's bamboo
that Queequeg never consorted at all, or but very little, with the other
that bloom of theirs, ye cannot, save in Salem, where they tell me the young
that goes a passenger."  Ha!  Jonah, that's another stab.  But he swiftly calls
that it was high time for the Captain to mind his own eye.  The prodigious
that joyful hour; I give the glory to my God, His all the mercy and the
that though what I hinted was true enough, yet he had a particular affection
that.  But, perhaps, to be true philosophers, we mortals should not be
the Acushnet river.  On
the Captain, "there's thy room."  Jonah enters, and would lock the door,
the New England coast, and carried off an infant Indian in his talons.  With
the Off-shore Ground in the Pacific, December 31st,
the Priest, and noting the ceremony, and thinking himself --being Captain of
the barrow from my hand to his, he told me a funny story about the first
the bed the night before, yet see how elastic our stiff prejudices grow when
the behavior of poor Jonah.  The eager mariners but ask him who he is, and
the benediction some time.  He was sitting on a bench before the fire, with
the best of it; and when the sailors find him not to be the man that is
the boarders, seemed amazingly tickled at the sudden friendship which had
the bottom of the sea.  This ended, in prolonged solemn tones, like the
the bowl before the blessed beverage circulates.  Seeing himself placed next
the casement, he never heeded my presence, never troubled himself with so
the congregation, sufficiently attested that this fine old man was the
the ducks, glance upwards to the great Giver of all feasts --Grace, I say,
the embalmed head to a barber, for a block, I settled my own and comrade's
the far rush of the mighty whale, which even now with open mouth is cleaving
the flood; most monstrous and most mountainous!  That Himmalehan, salt-sea
the freezing foam.  I looked at the grand and glorious fellow, but saw no one
the frightened master comes to him, and shrieks in his dead ear, "What
the goods, to mark the stranger's evil eye.  Jonah sees this; but in vain he
the inn, under a dull red lamp swinging there, that looked much like an
the island; that is, dipping his consecrated and consecrating fingers into
the kelpy bottom of the waters; sea-weed and all the slime of the sea is
the kitchen served to belie the apparently cheerless prospect before us.  But
the lamp more and
the landless gull, that at sunset folds her wings and is rocked to sleep
the leaves of the Bible, and at last, folding his hand down upon the proper
the lifetime of his God?  He said no more, but slowly waving a benediction,
the living God.  How being an anointed pilot-prophet, or speaker of true
the mentioning; so, after a fine run, we safely arrived in Nantucket.
the missing murderers from Sodom."  Another runs to read the bill that's stuck
the opening maw of hell, With endless pains and sorrows there; Which none but
the opinion of learned men.  And where is Cadiz, shipmates?  Cadiz is in
the passer-by their tapering upright cones of congregated blossoms.  So
the people laugh?  Upon this, he told me another story.  The people of his
the present, ushered us into a little room, and seating us at a table spread
the pulpit's bows, folded his large brown hands across his chest, uplifted his
the red-men.  Thus goes the legend.  In olden times an eagle swooped down upon
the sailors did there; and then going on to Nantucket, and seeing how they
the seas after him.  Aye, shipmates, Jonah was gone down into the sides of
the ship --a berth in the cabin as I have taken it, and was fast asleep.  But
the side with a long living arc of a leap.  For three
the sin of this son of Amittai was in his wilful disobedience of the command
the time, but I could not help staring at this gallows with a vague
the trappings of some unceasing grief, that I feel sure that here before me
the water it had absorbed.  However, hat and coat and overshoes were one by
the waves of the billows of the seas of the boisterous mob can never shake
their adieux.  At last, after much dodging search, he finds the Tarshish ship
their cheeks is perennial as sunlight in the seventh heavens.  Elsewhere match
their clothes, and tried to talk their gibberish.  Hence the queer ways about
their daughters, and portion off their nieces with a few porpoises a-piece.
their gamesome but still serious way, one whispers to the other --"Jack, he's
their hands upon him.  Frighted Jonah trembles, and summoning all his
their own scythes --though in no wise obliged to furnished them -- even so,
them again, showed a deep joy in his eyes, as he cried out with a heavenly
them the Atlantic, Pacific, and Indian oceans, as the three pirate powers did
them towards me, and said it was mine.  I was going to remonstrate; but he
then begin again at the next fifty; seeming to commence at number one each
then went about his evening prayers, took out his idol, and removed the
then, shipmates, that Jonah sought to flee world-wide from God?  Miserable
then, that these Nantucketers, born on a beach, should take to the sea for a
there open the very bottom of their souls to each other; and some old couples
there plant toadstools before their houses, to get under the shade in summer
there yet lurked any ice of indifference towards me in the Pagan's breast,
there?" cries the Captain at his busy desk, hurriedly making out his papers
therefore three cheers for Nantucket; and come a stove boat and stove body
therefore, was not reading those frigid inscriptions on the wall.  Whether any
they tell no tales, though containing more secrets than the Goodwin Sands;
they that feel can tell-- Oh, I was plunging to despair.  In black distress,
they waded out with nets for mackerel; more experienced, they pushed off in
they were.  But, alas!  the practices of whalemen soon convinced him that even
things, and bidden by the Lord to sound those unwelcome truths in the ears of
things, including my own poor carpet-bag, and Queequeg's canvas sack and
thinks I. A Coffin my Innkeeper upon landing in my first whaling port;
this book, containing only four chapters --four yarns --is one of the smallest
this is full of meaning.  Now Jonah's Captain, shipmates, was one whose
this pleasant, genial smoke we had, soon thawed it out, and left us cronies.
this punchbowl always forms the great central ornament on the braided mat
this raging tumult, Jonah sleeps his hideous sleep.  He sees no black sky and
this sin of disobedience in him, Jonah still further flouts at God, by
this sort of deliciousness is to have nothing but the blanket between you and
this wild idolator in worshipping his piece of wood?  But what is worship?
this, nowhere in all America will you find more patrician-like houses; parks
those ancient days, when the Atlantic was an almost unknown sea.  Because
those days, jonah, on the mere suspicion of something wrong, had been arrested
though he was, and hideously marred about the face --at least to my taste --
thought I. Do you suppose now, Ishmael, that the magnanimous God of heaven
thrice; kissed his nose; and that done, we undressed and went to bed, at
throne of thirty pagan Kings before him.  But by and by, he said, he would
till poor Queequeg took his last long dive.  Was there ever such
time, as though he could not count more than fifty, and it was only by such
time; that one blade of grass makes an oasis, three blades in a day's walk a
to a distant strait, which he knew the ship must pass through when she quitted
to be saved.  The greenhorn had gone down.  Shooting himself perpendicularly
to do --remember that --and hence, he oftener commands us than endeavors to
to enlarge the circle of his acquaintances.  All this struck me as mighty
to explain to him the purpose of the printing, and the meaning of the few
to feel myself mysteriously drawn towards him.  And those same things that
to let it go, though hacked in pieces.  In vain the captain threatened to throw
to look out upon the sea.  But at that moment he is sprung upon by a panther
to one, who, like me, was wholly ignorant of the mysteries of whaling, though
to sail out of Nantucket, as being the most promising port for an adventurous
to the other, till slowly there grew over us a blue hanging tester of smoke,
to the westward from that, just outside the Straits of Gibraltar.  See ye not
to them to take him and cast him forth into the sea, for he knew that for
tobacco, drew out some thirty dollars in silver; then spreading them on the
together the night previous, and especially considering the affectionate arm
tombs, and even from these dead doubts she gathers her most vital hope.  It
tombstones staring at me in the whalemen's chapel; and here a gallows!  and a
too, that his head being shaved, his forehead was drawn out in freer and
top-mast, planted in front of an old doorway.  The horns of the cross-trees
touching tophet?  I was called from these reflections by the sight of a
towards the concluding stanzas, burst forth with a pealing exultation and joy
trace of the same sea-taste that had achieved the ladder and the picture.  Its
tract of land would this day perhaps have been in as howling condition as the
treacherous world has gone down beneath him.  Delight is to him, who gives
tries to look all ease and confidence; in vain essays his wretched smile.
true substance.  Methinks that in looking at things spiritual, we are too much
turning sideways was surprised to see Queequeg near me.  Affected by the
turns and turns in giddy anguish, praying God for annihilation until the fit
turtles.  But these extravaganzas only show that Nantucket is no Illinois.
twenty years as a substitute for blotting paper.  Some gamesome wights will
two thirds of this terraqueous globe are the Nantucketer's.  For the sea is
unassuming authority ordered the scattered people to condense.  Starboard
unbidden infidelities in the lines that seem to gnaw upon all Faith, and
unconsciousness?  He did not seem to think that he at all deserved a medal
undulating tester rolled the savage away to far distant scenes, I know not,
unilluminated twelve-o'clock-at-night, I experienced a disagreeable
unstirring paralysis, and deadly, hopeless trance, yet lies antique Adam who
untutored youth.  A Sag Harbor ship visited his father's bay, and Queequeg
up into little flakes; the whole enriched with butter, and plentifully
upon this once scraggy scoria of a country?  Go and gaze upon the iron
upon us silent, solitary twain; the storm booming without in solemn swells;
very panics are more to be dreaded than his most fearless and malicious
very projecting, like two long promontories thickly wooded on top.  Queequeg
very strange.  But savages are strange beings; at times you do not know
voyage, I regarded those marble tablets, and by the murky light of that
voyage, and in particular, Queequeg seeing his favorite fishing food before
warm spark in the heart of an arctic crystal.  We had been sitting in this
was George Washington cannibalistically developed.  Whilst I was thus closely
was deposited within, leaving him impregnable in his little Quebec.  I
was jonah.  but the sea rebels; he will not bear the wicked burden.  A
was safe.  The schooner was run into the wind, and while the hands were
water -- something to wipe the brine off; that done, he put on dry clothes,
water of young cocoanuts into a large stained calabash like a punchbowl; and
water the thinnest of air.  Methinks my body is but the lees of my better
water-line, Jonah feels the heralding presentiment of that stifling hour, when
waters when God has brewed them into a gale!  Woe to him who seeks to please
waters.  They resolved to follow in the same direction.  Setting out in their
way in which to manage the barrow --Queequeg puts his chest upon it; lashes
wedding feast of Queequeg's sister, a pretty young princess just turned of
well acquainted with the sea, as known to merchant seamen.  His story being
went to jabbering the best we could about the various outer sights to be seen
were assembled those, in whose unhealing hearts the sight of those bleak
were best to strike a light, seeing that we were so wide awake; and besides
were sawed off on the other side, so that this old top-mast looked not a
were wrapped about his head," and all the watery world of woe bowled over
whaleman to embark from.  He at once resolved to accompany me to that island,
wheelbarrow he had ever seen.  It was in Sag Harbor.  The owners of his ship,
when I had become more familiar with his broken phraseology, now enable me to
when our smoke was over, he pressed his forehead against mine, clasped me
when that smoking chowder came in, the mystery was delightfully explained.
when they will, for stave my soul, Jove himself cannot.
whence comest thou?  thy country?  what people?" but mark now, my shipmates,
where from; whereas, they not only receive an answer to those questions, but
where the eddying depths sucked him ten thousand fathoms down, and"the weeds
where the feast is held.  Now a certain grand merchant ship once touched at
which is one of the luxurious discomforts of the rich.  For the height of
while all his sympathetic shipmates now crowd round Jonah, prepared to lay
whom I now companied with.  We borrowed a wheelbarrow, and embarking our
will not venture to decide; but certain it was his head was phrenologically
will of God -- that is worship.  And what is the will of God? --to do to my
with a different flavor, and in good time a fine cod-chowder was placed
with the relics of a recently concluded repast, turned round to us and
without some little chat.  How it is I know not; but there is no place like a
wives and widows.  A muffled silence reigned, only broken at times by the
woe is
wood, so that at every step there was a joint.  At my first glimpse of the
woodlands in a grass clout, followed by the nibbling goats, as if he were a
world charms from Gospel duty!  Woe to him who seeks to pour oil upon the
world it occupies; how it stands there, away off shore, more lonely than the
world's a ship on its passage out, and not a voyage complete; and the pulpit
world, in all meridians.  We cannibals must help these Christians.
world.  This soothing savage had redeemed it.  There he sat, his very
worship.  consequently, i must then unite with him in his; ergo, I must turn
would I come down from this mast-head and sit on the hatches there where you
would do to me?  Why, unite with me in my particular Presbyterian form of
would have repelled most others, they were the very magnets that thus drew
years he knows not the land; so that when he comes to it at last, it smells
yellow warehouse --our first point of departure --must be left on the larboard
you; both his hands press upon me.  I have read ye by what murky light may
your snugness and the cold of the outer air.  Then there you lie like the one
your tricks aboard here; so mind your eye.  But it so happened just then,
