




































































































    
     Already has it been
     And I, you, and he; and we, ye, and they, are all bats; and I'm a crow,
     Besides her hoisted boats, an American
     Bouton part of the inscription, yet the word rose, and the bulbous
     Broke it?
     But Fedallah, putting a finger on his lip, slid over the bulwarks
     De balena vero sufficit, si rex habeat
     Drinking hot rum toddies with me every night, till he couldn't see to put on
     ENDERBY, OF LONDON Ship, ahoy!  Hast seen the White Whale?  So cried Ahab,
     Ere now it has been related how Ahab was
     Ere the English ship fades from sight, be
     Friends, hold my arms!  For in the mere act of penning my thoughts of this
     From his mighty bulk the whale
     Had you descended from the Pequod's
     Had you stepped on board the Pequod at a
     He vows and declares, Monsieur, that the other whale, the dried one, is far
     Hitherto, in descriptively
     I wish it was broken, or that I didn't have any nose at all!  answered the
     In the first
     In vain it was to rake
     Inasmuch, then, as this Leviathan comes floundering down upon us from the
     Is this the still militant old man, standing at the corners of the three
     It was but some few days after
     Loose-Fish?  What is the principle of religious belief in them but a
     No boat-knife was lifted when he fell so rapidly astern.  Stubb's inexorable
     Now this ambergris is a very curious
     Stood our old Sammy off to the northward, to get out of the blazing hot
     Syren --made a noble experimental cruise; and it was thus that the great
     That whale of Stubb's so dearly
     The allusion to the waifs
     Then the whole world was the whale's; and, king of creation, he left his
     There's something ever egotistical in mountain-tops and towers, and all
     Think you I let that chance go, without using my boat-hatchet and
     To begin: there's Aries, or the Ram --lecherous dog, he begets us; then,
     Ultimately the defendants (the crew of another ship) came up with the whale,
     What now?  said the Guernsey-man to Stubb.  Why, since he takes it so easy,
     a
     always the whale-ship's stokers.  With huge pronged poles they pitched
     and at two cents the cigar, that's nine hundred and
     and have a long talk with its inmates.  This place has previously been
     and there it stayed for a twelvemonth or more; when I gave him an emetic,
     back, just in time to prevent the vessel from flying up into the wind, and
     berg, to put up), this village was founded in order to afford a place for
     broke to my fingers, and discharged all their opulence, like fully ripe
     but a
     but in the wife, the heart, the bed, the table, the saddle, the fire-side,
     but of the whales found in that
     clever things of that sort.  But I may as well say --en passant, as the French
     crim.  con.  case, wherein a gentleman, after in vain trying to bridle his
     desperate.  Ha, ha!  old Ahab!  the White Whale; he'll nail ye!  This is a
     elaborate history of whales, in the very beginning of his work (page 3),
     eternally.  In thoughts of the visions of the night, I saw long rows of
     float from forth the loom; the freshet-rushing carpet for ever slides away.
     flukes, an utter blank!  How vain and foolish, then, thought I, for timid
     for one single moment you would have almost thought you were standing in
     found something there in the vicinity of his thigh --I guess it's Sagittarius,
     from the boat, is still better.  Moreover, as if perceiving at last that if
     from which list, as translated by Dr.  Snodhead.  I transcribe the following: 0084400,000 lbs.  of beef. 60,000 lbs.  Friesland pork. 150,000 lbs.  of stock fish.
     get loose, or the tooth it was tangled to might draw (for I have
     give him your left arm for bait to get the right.  Do you know, gentlemen
     glimpses into those Polar eternities; when wedged bastions of ice pressed
     he did not mean to, at least.  Because there were two boats in his wake, and
     here they are --here they go --all alive: --Aries, or the Ram; Taurus, or the
     hundred feet in length --Rope Walks and Thames Tunnels of Whales!  And even in
     inclosed surface of the works.  By a tunnel inserted at the rear, this
     it last.  For it was set apart and sanctified to one awe-striking end; and
     it operates like a leathern squilgee; and by nameless blandishments, as of
     lay before you a circumstance that happened within the last two years.  It
     my God!  who can tell it?  Mark, how when sailors in a dead calm bathe in
     nose in a sort of bag.  What's the matter with your nose, there?  said Stubb.
     now, since by many prolonged, repeated experiences, I have perceived that in
     occupying a conspicuous pulpit; intent on bible leaves; what a candidate for
     oil is much accelerated, and its quantity considerably increased, besides
     oil, and bone, and blubber, were little short of audacity.  They know not the
     or any token of ever having been a wound -- Well, the captain there will tell
     puffing tobacco-smoke, so that it constantly filled their olfactories.
     rowing on the Line, --they only step to the deck to carry vast chains, and
     said the Guernsey-man, in French, turning to his captain, that only
     so variously repeated in this book, that the skeleton of the whale is by no
     that at last I was continually squeezing their hands, and looking up into
     that is, Virtue and Vice; we try to reach Virtue, when lo!  comes Cancer
     that the skeleton of the whale furnishes but little clue to the shape of his
     the baling of the Heidelburgh Tun, or Case.  While some were occupied with
     the bright sun meets our glance half way, to cheer.  Yet, oh, the great sun
     the first harpoon, let this old great-grandfather have it.  But, Lord, look
     the morn will show in far other, at least gentler, relief; the glorious,
     them for Sperm Whale spouts; yes, and sometimes sailing from their port with
     there.
     though it seemed but a minute since I had been watching the card, by the
     to the defendants; the whale, because it was a Loose-Fish at the time of the
     was
     weighed and found wanting; and while we are very sad about that, Lord!  how
     whaleman, as he seeks the food of light, so he lives in light.  He makes his
     which measured eight feet and some inches.  From that part, the remaining
     wonderful devices, chiselled shells, inlaid spears, costly paddles,
     yet steadfastly shot her red hell further and further into the blackness of
     yet the two substances are quite distinct.  For amber, though at times found
 20,000 lbs.  of Texel and Leyden cheese. 144,000 lbs.  cheese (probably an
 550,000 lbs.  of biscuit. 72,000 lbs.  of soft bread. 2,800 firkins of butter.
(both letters were published) that he had already done so, and received the
(reydan-siskur, or Wrinkled Bellies) at one hundred and twenty yards; that
(the reverend gentleman) would decline meddling with other people's business.
) it fitted out the first English
) our valiant Coffins and Maceys of Nantucket
, a fine ship, the
, on the
, the same house fitted out a discovery whale ship of their own, to go on
, this great whaling house was in existence, my numerous fish-documents
-- Bouton-de-Rose, ahoy!  are there any of you Bouton-de-Roses that speak
--Mounttop; Mounttop--the captain); --as I was saying, I jumped into Mounttop's
--as some call him --and then I knew it was he.  Did'st thou cross his wake
--avast heaving there!  Jump, boys, and swing over the cutting-tackle.  As
--fire worshipper, depend upon it.  Ho!  more and more.  This way comes Pip
--not all though --were such famous, hospitable ships; that passed round the
--poor boy!  would he had died, or I; he's half horrible to me.  He too has
--so truly English --knowing not what to say, fall to vigorously scratching
--spread out his ribs like a gigantic fan --and swing all day upon his lower
--that having a long tow-line in his boat, he would do what he could to help
--the whale's tail looming straight up out of it, perpendicular in the air,
--very gravely and mathematically bowing to each Captain in succession -- Do
.  But
.  But
.. < chapter c 2  LEG AND ARM THE PEQUOD, OF NANTUCKET, MEETS THE SAMUEL >
.. < chapter ci 10  THE DECANTER >
.. < chapter cii 2  A BOWER IN THE ARSACIDES >
.. < chapter ciii 10  MEASUREMENT OF THE WHALE'S SKELETON >
.. < chapter civ 30  THE FOSSIL WHALE >
.. < chapter cv 24 DOES THE WHALE'S MAGNITUDE DIMINISH? WILL HE PERISH? >
.. < chapter lxxxix 2  FAST-FISH AND LOOSE-FISH >
.. < chapter xc 2  HEADS OR TAILS >
.. < chapter xci 2  THE PEQUOD MEETS THE ROSE-BUD >
.. < chapter xcii 31  AMBERGRIS >
.. < chapter xciii 15  THE CASTAWAY >
.. < chapter xciv 26  A SQUEEZE OF THE HAND >
.. < chapter xcix 30  THE DOUBLOON >
.. < chapter xcv 6  THE CASSOCK >
.. < chapter xcvi 17  THE TRY-WORKS >
.. < chapter xcvii 9  THE LAMP >
.. < chapter xcviii 2  STOWING DOWN AND CLEARING UP >
.. <p 393 >
.. <p 394 >
.. <p 395 >
.. <p 396 >
.. <p 397 >
.. <p 398 >
.. <p 399 >
.. <p 400 >
.. <p 401 >
.. <p 402 >
.. <p 403 >
.. <p 404 >
.. <p 405 >
.. <p 406 >
.. <p 406 >
.. <p 407 >
.. <p 408 >
.. <p 409 >
.. <p 409 >
.. <p 410 >
.. <p 411 >
.. <p 412 >
.. <p 413 >
.. <p 413 >
.. <p 414 >
.. <p 415 >
.. <p 416 >
.. <p 417 >
.. <p 417 >
.. <p 418 >
.. <p 418 >
.. <p 418n. >
.. <p 419 >
.. <p 420 >
.. <p 421 >
.. <p 422 >
.. <p 423 >
.. <p 423 >
.. <p 424 >
.. <p 425 >
.. <p 426 >
.. <p 426 >
.. <p 427 >
.. <p 428 >
.. <p 429 >
.. <p 430 >
.. <p 431 >
.. <p 432 >
.. <p 433 >
.. <p 434 >
.. <p 435 >
.. <p 436 >
.. <p 437 >
.. <p 438 >
.. <p 439 >
.. <p 440 >
.. <p 440 >
.. <p 441 >
.. <p 442 >
.. <p 443 >
.. <p 444 >
.. <p 445 >
.. <p 446 >
.. <p 447 >
.. <p 448 >
.. <p 449 >
.. <p 449 >
.. <p 450 >
.. <p 451 >
.. <p 451 >
.. <p 452 >
.. <p 453 >
.. <p 454 >
.. <p 455 >
.. <p 455 >
.. <p 456 >
.. <p 457 >
A significant illustration of the fact, again and again repeated in this book,
According to this little plan of theirs, the Guernsey-man, under cover of an
Ahab.  And in the present instance, all this was heightened by the sight of
Alas!  Stubb was but too true to his word.  It was a beautiful, bounteous,
Amelia, fitted out for the express purpose, and at the sole charge of the
And as for my exact knowledge of the bones of the leviathan in their gigantic,
And by the soundest commentators this has ever been held a cogent argument
And even if he for ever flies within the gorge, that gorge is in the
And what are you, reader, but a Loose-Fish and a Fast-Fish, too?
Archer, is amusing himself.  As we pluck out the shafts, stand aside; here's
Attached to this back-bone, for something less than a third of its length,
Basilosaurus.  But some specimen bones of it being taken across the sea to
Before this equatorial coin, Ahab, not unobserved by others, was now pausing.
Bible leaves!  Bible leaves!  This is the invariable cry from the mates to
Bobbing up and down in that sea, Pip's ebon head showed like a head of cloves.
Brandreth's pills, and then running out of harm's way, as laborers do in
Bull and Jimimi!  here's Gemini himself, or the Twins.  Well; the sun he
Bunger. (Bunger, you dog, laugh out!  why don't ye?  You know you're a
But I had no hand in shipping that ivory arm there; that thing is against all
But by far the most wonderful of all cetacean relics was the almost complete
But here a curious difficulty presented itself.  In the excitement of the
But it so happened, that those boats, without seeing Pip, suddenly spying
But that night, in particular, a strange (and ever since inexplicable)
But when Leviathan is the text, the case is altered.  Fain am I to stagger to
Can you land a full-grown whale on your deck for examination, as a cook
Cannibal?  As I live he's comparing notes; looking at his thigh bone; thinks
Captain Boomer here, stood our old Sammy-- Samuel Enderby is the name of
Captain Boomer's facetious interruption, that spite of my best and severest
Captain Coffin was examined at the bar of the English House of Commons on that
Captain's round-house abaft; and looking in that direction saw a fiery face
Cinque Ports are partially or somehow under the jurisdiction of a sort of
Cinque Ports, had after a hard chase succeeded in killing and beaching a fine
Coke-upon-Littleton of the fist.  True, among the more upright and honorable
Commanded by a naval Post-Captain, the Rattler made a rattling voyage of it,
Connecticut, he had once enlivened many a fiddler's frolic on the green; and
Cutting me a green measuring-rod, I once more dived within the skeleton.
Dick doesn't bite so much as he swallows.  Well, then, interrupted Bunger,
Dr.  Snodhead, so soon as he spied the book, assured me that Dan Coopman did
During the night-watches some cynical old sailors will crawl into them and
Enderby was a jolly ship; of good fare and plenty; fine flip and strong;
English?  Yes, rejoined a Guernsey-man from the bulwarks, who turned out
Englishman.  I was ignorant of the White Whale at that time.  Well, one day
Englishmen.  Oh!  cried the one-armed captain, Oh, yes!  Well; after he
Epitome calls the zodiac, and what my almanack below calls ditto.  I'll get
Fast-Fish?  What are the Duke of Dunder's hereditary towns and hamlets but
Fast-Fish?  What to that redoubted harpooneer, John Bull, is poor Ireland,
For example, --after a weary and perilous chase and capture of a whale, the
Fossil Whales, I present my credentials as a geologist, by stating that in my
Frenchman's two whales.  Elsewhere in this volume the slanderous aspersion has
From their arrow-slit in the skull, the priests perceived me taking the
Glen; the trees stood high and haughty, feeling their living sap; the
Greece to the Turk?  What India to England?  What at last will Mexico be to
Greece, two thousand years ago, did die, so good, so wise, so mild; I
Guernsey-man had a little chat with him, during which the stranger mate
Guernsey-man, who did not seem to relish the job he was at very much.  But
Harpooneer, must have the head, and the Queen be respectfully presented with
Here lounged the watch, when not otherwise employed, looking into the red
Hereby perhaps Stubb indirectly hinted, that though man loved his fellow,
Hook, I'd not look at it very long ere spending it.  Humph!  in my poor,
I can stand the rest, for they have plain wits; but he's too crazy-witty
I didn't then know what whale it was that had served me such a trick, till
I jumped into my first mate's boat --Mr. Mounttop's here (by the way, Captain
I may as well, said the surgeon, coolly.  I was about observing, sir, before
I must go.  He says, Monsieur, that his principles won't admit of his
I myself almost melted into it; I squeezed that sperm till a strange sort of
I sat down before a large Constantine's bath of it, I found it strangely
I shall now simply point out what is most interesting in the general bulk of
I.  Lo!  in my brief sleep I had turned myself about, and was fronting the
If he cuts off one of his own toes, or one of his assistants', would you be
Immemorial to all his order, this investiture alone will adequately protect
In outer aspect, Pip and Dough-Boy made a match, like a black pony and a
Ishmael; but have a care how you seize the privilege of Jonah alone; the
Japanese Whaling Ground first became generally known.  The Syren in this
John Leo, the old Barbary traveller.  Not far from the Sea-side, they have a
Kedron, as darkly set forth in the 15th chapter of the first book of Kings.
Laws of England, which taken along with the context, means, that of all whales
Leviathan's tail: it averages an inch in thickness, and for the rest, is
Leviathan, it behoves me to approve myself omnisciently exhaustive in the
Leviathan, they weary me, and make me faint with their out-reaching
Leviathan.  Nippers.  Strictly this word is not indigenous to the whale's
Leviathans, and proverbially the most dangerous to encounter; excepting
Leviathans, their incalculable seniors; I am, by a flood, borne back to that
Liberties of the World but Loose-Fish?  What all men's minds and opinions but
Likewise, by way of preliminary, I desire to remind the reader, that while
Lion, lies in the path --he gives a few fierce bites and surly dabs with his
Look at the sailor, called the mincer, who now comes along, and assisted by
Loose-Fish is fair game for anybody who can soonest catch it.  But what plays
Loose-Fish?  What to the ostentatious smuggling verbalists are the thoughts of
Lord Warden's.  Upon this the poor mariners in their respectful consternation
Maachah in Judea; and for worshipping which, king Asa, her son, did depose
Marking all this, Stubb argued well for his scheme, and turning to the
Mecca, for the same purpose that frankincense is carried to St.  Peter's in
Meddling with other People's Business.  Yes; these laws might be engraven on a
Monsieur had best drop all four boats, and pull the ship away from these
Nevertheless, in the proper place we shall see that no knowing fisherman will
Nor must there be omitted another strange attestation of the antiquity of the
North and South Atlantic: not elsewhere.  Be it distinctly recorded here,
Now that the incorruption of this most fragrant ambergris should be found in
Oh!  my friends, but this is man-killing!  Yet this is life.  For hardly have
One day the planks stream with freshets of blood and oil; on the sacred
Pacific were thrown open.  But not content with this good deed, the
Pandects and the By-laws of the Chinese Society for the Suppression of
Paul in Corinthians, about corruption and incorruption; how that we are sown
People imagine, that by a secret Power bestowed by God upon the Temple, no
Pequod with the little negro Pippin by nick-name, Pip by abbreviation.  Poor
Perhaps the only formal whaling code authorized by legislative enactment, was
Pharaoh's.  Methuselah seems a school-boy.  I look round to shake hands with
Philistines, has but two props to stand on.  Is it not a saying in every one's
Pip loved life, and all life's peaceable securities; so that the
Pip!  ye have heard of him before; ye must remember his tambourine on that
Pip's ringed horizon began to expand around him miserably.  By the merest
Popayan; with plenty of gold moidores and pistoles, and joes, and half joes,
Queen Anne's farthing, or the barb of a harpoon, and worn round the neck, so
Queen-pinmoney, an old King's Bench author, one William Prynne, thus
Rib of an incredible length for a Miracle, which lying upon the Ground with
Roman tiles and pottery buried in fat English loam.  His boat's crew were all
Rome.  Some wine merchants drop a few grains into claret, to flavor it.  Who
Rose-bud, that it's all nonsense trying to get any oil out of such whales?  As
Sahara, nor all the millions of miles of deserts and of griefs beneath the
Samuel Enderby, merchant of that city, the original of the famous whaling
Scotland, and in the States of Louisiana, Mississippi, and Alabama.  Among the
Seas, on the very coasts of that Esquimaux country where the convivial
Seeing how matters stood, and what a noble great whale it was --the noblest
Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, his spermaceti, oil, and bone pass unscathed
Shem.  I am horror-struck at this antemosaic, unsourced existence of the
Sir Clifford thinks of charging twopence for a peep at the whispering gallery
Snodhead, a very learned man, professor of Low Dutch and High German in the
Solomon.  But even Solomon, he says, the man that wandereth out of the way
Some few hands are reserved called ship-keepers, whose province it is to work
Sorrows, and the truest of all books is Solomon's, and Ecclesiastes is the
Sperm Whales have been captured near a hundred feet long at the time of
Spitzbergen sea, did not much exceed three months, say, and reckoning 30 men
Squeeze!  squeeze!  squeeze!  all the morning long; I squeezed that sperm till
Stubb was now politely introduced by the Guernsey-man, who at once
Stubb was struck by a shower of outcries and anathemas proceeding from the
Stubb, that somewhere hereabouts are some of those drugged whales we tickled
Stubb.  Oh, jolly's the word for aye!  Adieu, Doubloon!  But stop; here comes
Such a clearer!  such a sweetener!  such a softener!  such a delicious
Such a statement may prove useful here.  According to a careful calculation I
Taurus, or the Bull --he bumps us the first thing; then Gemini, or the Twins --
Temple, the Rafters and Beams of which are made of Whale-Bones; for Whales
Tertiary system, those belonging to its latter formations exceed in size
The English were preceded in the whale fishery by the Hollanders, Zealanders,
The burning ship drove on, as if remorselessly commissioned to some vengeful
The firm tower, that is Ahab; the volcano, that is Ahab; the courageous, the
The intense concentration of self in the middle of such a heartless immensity,
The weaver-god, he weaves; and by that weaving is he deafened, that he hears
There are forty and odd vertebrae in all, which in the skeleton are not
There is a wisdom that is woe; but there is a woe that is madness.  And there
There is another substance, and a very singular one, which turns up in the
They generally go in pairs, --a pike-and-gaff-man and a spade-man.  The
Thus we see how that the spine of even the hugest of living things tapers off
Tranque, years ago, when attached to the trading-ship Dey of Algiers, I was
Tranquilly permitting these irregular cursings to evaporate, Stubb then in a
We all struck out.  To escape his terrible flailings, I seized hold of my
Whale --no.  Very good, then; good bye now, and I'll call again in a
Whale can pass it without immediate death.  But the truth of the Matter is,
When the vast body had at last been stripped of its fathom-deep enfoldings,
White Whale?  What whale?  The White Whale --a Sperm Whale --Moby Dick,
Wrapped, for that interval, in darkness myself, I but the better saw the
Yet so it is.  By some, ambergris is supposed to be the cause, and by others
a Lying-in Hospital.  I partly surmise also, that this wicked charge against
a bouncing great whale, with a milky-white head and hump, all crows' feet and
a bunch of posies, will ye, Bouton-de-Rose?  What in the devil's name do you
a critical glance at the ivory limbs of the two crippled captains.  But, at his
a dead comrade from the field.  extending it upon the forecastle deck, he now
a devil of a boat's crew for a pull on a whale-line); seeing all this, I say,
a fish is technically fast when it bears a waif, or any other recognised
a flea --such portly terms might justly be deemed unwarrantably grandiloquent.
a huzzar's surcoat.  Hast seen the White Whale?  See you this?  and
a jackal for ye!  I well know that these Crappoes of Frenchmen are but poor
a reckless, rollicking rate, that no prudent underwriter would insure them
a red cotton velvet vest with watch-seals at his side.  To this gentleman,
a ruthless crew and every hour passed by ruthless hands, and through the
a sagacious lawyer like Prynne.  But is the Queen a mermaid, to be presented
a shocking bad wound, began the whale-surgeon; and, taking my advice,
a spacious roundabout, that hung round him in festoons of blue pilot-cloth;
a subsequent gentleman re-harpooned her, the lady then became that subsequent
a tasting cruise to the remote waters of Japan.  That ship --well called the
ability at any time to take it alongside, as well as their intention so to
aboard, and mayhap he'll believe you, if he won't me; and so I'll get out of
about the size of the iron part of a hoe.  Edgewise moved along the oily deck,
according to my careful calculation, I say, a Sperm Whale of the largest
admeasurement of the whale.
admeasurements.  These admeasurements I now propose to set before you.  But
admirable brevity of it, which necessitates a vast volume of commentaries to
advance in magnitude upon those of all previous geological periods; may it
advice, and concluded with a peremptory command, Stick to the boat, Pip, or
afar.  Now, amid the green, life-restless loom of that Arsacidean wood, the
affords a most congenial theme whereon to enlarge, amplify, and generally
after completely filling her hold with oil, does not, perhaps, consume fifty
after the second iron, to toss it overboard --down comes the tail like a Lima
afterwards took the fish; ergo, the aforesaid articles were theirs.  A common
again.  Issuing from the cabin, Stubb now called his boat's crew, and pulled
again.  It was under very similar circumstances to the first performance; but
again; what does that mean?  Hark!  he's muttering --voice like an old
again?  Twice.  But could not fasten?  Didn't want to try to: ain't one
against a blue-veined neck, the pure-watered diamond drop will healthful
against his chest, he breasted it overboard with him, so as to become
against my principles to drink with the man I've diddled.  In fact, tell him
against the bulwarks -- Man the boat!  Which way heading?  Good God!  cried
against whalemen, and which, in the estimation of some already biased minds,
ages, you rascal.  What became of the White Whale?  now cried Ahab, who
akin to them in general respects, to justify their taking ranks as Cetacean
all blending with it for a time.  I have it, I have it, cried Stubb, with
all cases man must eventually lower, or at least shift, his conceit of
all controllable by the occupant or occupants, -- a mast, an oar, a nine-inch
all the shrubs, and ferns, and grasses; the message-carrying air; all
all this, I will not admit that of all animals the whale alone should have
almost completely extinct; the subsequent relics discovered in what are
almost have thought he was digging a cellar there in the sea; and when at
almost hourly used to it, like whalemen --to clamber up a ship's side from a
almost invariably in the fishery, a coward, so called, is marked with the same
aloft there, wheels through toil and trouble; and so, alow here, does jolly
along the bulwarks, and with buckets of water and rags restore them to their
alongside of it.  Yet are there those who will still do it; notwithstanding
alongside of the Pequod.
alongside.  Upon this the captain started, and eagerly desired to know more.
alongside; and this second whale seemed even more of a nosegay than the
altitude of the final rib.  How now!  they shouted; Dar'st thou measure
always done; but cutting up the fresh blubber in small bits, thrust it
always what least allures.  He's all a magnet!  How long since thou saw'st him
ambergris affair Stubb's after-oarsman chanced so to sprain his hand, as
ambergris, certain hard, round, bony plates, which at first Stubb thought
ambergris, worth a gold guinea an ounce to any druggist.  Some six handfuls
among these latter was a great Sperm Whale, which, after an unusually long
an abounding, affectionate, friendly, loving feeling did this avocation beget;
an archbishoprick, what a lad for a Pope were this mincer!
an ingenious and very handy mechanical contrivance peculiar to the Pequod,
an opportunity to dissect him in miniature.  In a ship I belonged to, a small
anchor, or the crotch of an apple tree), and then giving the word, held
and Danes; from whom they derived many terms still extant in the fishery;
and Platonic application; and, furthermore, I compiled supplementary tables
and Stubb returned to the Frenchman.  He now perceived that the Guernsey-man,
and a thing not to be rigged and shipped in any other vessel at a moment's
and all aglow, as bridegrooms new-leaped from out the daintiest Holland.  Now,
and also from the thicker portions of his flukes.  It is tough with congealed
and begat him curly-headed glories.  Now, when with royal Tranquo I visited
and biggest I ever saw, sir, in my life --I resolved to capture him, spite of
and blow.  While still warm, the oil, like hot punch, is received into the
and bye we scrambled down, so sober, that we had to pass the flip again,
and cheese of hundreds of thousands of broken-backed laborers (all sure of
and did some service; how much does not appear.  But this is not all.  In 0084
and didn't know him then; but not to another one.  No more White Whales for
and elucidated by Lord Ellenborough in the above cited case; these two laws
and following it back, I emerged from the opening where I entered.  I saw no
and for long hours silently guided the way of this fire-ship on the sea.
and fro I paced before this skeleton --brushed the vines aside --broke through
and gills of good gin and good cheer.  At the time, I devoted three days to
and goes to snapping furiously at my fast-line.  Aye, I see! --wanted to part
and hailing the pequod to give notice of his intentions, at once proceeded to
and he heaved it up in small tacks, d'ye see.  No possible way for him to
and jails, and walks fast crossing grave-yards, and would rather talk of
and lurches about.  Meanwhile, the spade-man stands on the sheet itself,
and mainmast; but in the multiplicity of other things requiring narration it
and one empty arm of this jacket streamed behind him like the broidered arm of
and pick him up; though, indeed, such considerations towards oarsmen
and quarter joes.  what then should there be in this doubloon of the Equator
and so floated an unappropriated corpse.  It may well be conceived, what an
and that done, unofficially gave him much wholesome advice.  The substance
and the Vineyard had in large fleets pursued that Leviathan, but only in the
and the ancient naturalists generally.  For Pliny tells us of whales that
and the bones become dust dry in the sun, then the skeleton was carefully
and then pairs of them would drop their work, and run up to the mast-head to
and there adhering to the blanket of blubber, and often participating to a
and think to be happy for aye, when pop comes Libra, or the Scales --happiness
and throughout the whole universe, not excluding its suburbs.  Such, and so
and vials, though --to the copper cooler at the try-works, and replenishes
and viciously spat round her on all sides; then the rushing Pequod, freighted
and waif-poles in the last chapter but one, necessitates some account of the
and weal or woe, feels then uncompromised, indifferent as his God.  For the
and what is yet more, their fat old fashions, touching plenty to eat and
and which is two thirds of this earth.  So, therefore, that mortal man who
and whoever raises a certain whale, this round thing belongs to him.  So,
angels in paradise, each with his hands in a jar of spermaceti.  Now, while
anomaly of the most solid masonry joining with oak and hemp in constituting
another chance at you shortly, that's all.  No, thank ye, Bunger, said the
another lonely castaway, though the loftiest and the brightest.  Now, in calm
answer to any known species of the present time, they are yet sufficiently
any foulness, it still preserved its Quito glow.  Nor, though placed amongst
any more than he would a riotous lad at Yale or Harvard.  They soon relinquish
any other race.  For blacks, the year's calendar should show naught but three
apart.  But, spite of all this, I could see no compass before me to steer by;
appeared from his cabin.  He was a small and dark, but rather delicate looking
approach, nevertheless every sunrise found the doubloon where the sunset left
archbishop of Savesoul's income of 100,000 pounds seized from the scant bread
are used for beams whereon to lay foot-path bridges over small streams.  In
arithmetic, I'll try my hand at raising a meaning out of these queer
arm (like two sword-fish blades) cried out in his walrus way, Aye, aye,
arm off, did he?  asked Ahab, now sliding down from the capstan, and resting
arm towards the East, and taking a rueful sight along it, as if it had been a
arm-holes at the other end, he lengthwise slips himself bodily into it.  The
aromatic canoes; and all these distributed among whatever natural wonders,
around him, it was plain that the whale alongside must be what the fishermen
as I should conceive a royal cutlet from the thigh of Louis le Gros might
as half a glimpse of that unaccountable cone, -- longer than a Kentuckian is
as his ancestors in Pliny's time.  And if ever I go where Pliny is, I, a
as the soundest advice ever is.  Now, in general, Stick to the boat, is
as though now for the first time beginning to interpret for himself in some
ascending from where the real jet had issued, I marvelled that the king
at a piece of gold, which did I have it now on Negro Hill or in Corlaer's
at last into simple child's play.
at last to that celestial thought, which, to reason, is absurd and frantic;
at melodious even-tide, with his gay ha-ha!  had turned the round horizon into
attainable felicity; not placing it anywhere in the intellect or the fancy;
away from it in a straight line, not a little resembled the hull of a great
away we sail to fight some other world, and go through young life's old
away.  The great hatch is scrubbed and placed upon the try-works, completely
aye --they were mine -- my irons, cried Ahab, exultingly -- but on!  Give me a
back was turned upon him; and the whale was winged.  In three minutes, a
banners waving, are in luxuriant profusion stamped; so that the precious gold
bannisters.  But this awkwardness only lasted a minute, because the strange
be finally killed and captured by another vessel; and herein are indirectly
be it, then.  Born in throes, 't is fit that man should live in pains and die
be luridly illumined by strange wild fires, that fictitiously showed him off
be the invaluable memoirs of some Amsterdam cooper in the fishery, as every
bearing on the other hand similar affinities to the annihilated antichronical
beautiful object to behold.  As its name imports, it is of an exceedingly
become a complete calm; so that whether or no, the Pequod was now fairly
beef, and the bread, and the can, and the joke; and were not soon weary
been all the time standing near them, with nothing specific visible, to
been at all sparing of historical whale research, when it has seemed needed.
been disproved, that the vocation of whaling is throughout a slatternly,
been found at the base of the Alps, in Lombardy, in France, in England, in
been watching all of these interpreters --myself included --and look now, he
befell myself.
before he wheeled out of a former equinox at Aries!  From storm to storm!  So
before his passive eyes; and the miser-merman, Wisdom, revealed his hoarded
began to credit the old Paracelsan superstition that sperm is of rare virtue
begging him to take the case of those unfortunate
beheaded was killed) his great padded surtout becomes the property of his
behoves me now to unbutton him still further, and untagging the points of his
belike of the tallow-vats, dairy-rooms, butteries, and cheeseries in his
bend down our eyes, the dark vale shows her mouldy soil; but if we lift them,
beneath the great equator, and named after it; and it had been cast midway
beneath the skin of the adult whale; nevertheless, I have been blessed with
beneath, till the snaky flames darted, curling, out of the doors to catch
benevolently towed away at his whale the other way, ostentatiously slacking
berth an Aladdin's lamp, and lays him down in it; so that in the pitchiest
besides, it was an anti-scorbutic; in short, the bread contained the only
besooted all the bulwarks; the mariners go about suffused with unctuousness;
between two of twelve sitting-rooms all in a ring.  Book!  you lie there; the
bewildered feeling, as of death, came over me.  Convulsively my hands grasped
binnacle
binnacle, with his glance fastened on the pointed needle in the compass, that
blackberrying.  Cook!  ho, cook!  and cook us!  Jenny!  hey, hey, hey, hey,
blasted whales in general.  The Pequod had now swept so nigh to the stranger,
blasting rocks.  I have forgotten to say that there were found in this
blind as a bat --both eyes out --all befogged and bedeadened with black foam
blotted out of existence.  When I stand among these mighty Leviathan skeletons,
blubber, now called scraps or fritters, still contains considerable of its
blubber-hook, now clean and dry, was still attached to the end.  This was
blue day; the spangled sea calm and cool, and flatly stretching away, all
boarded her once at midnight somewhere off the Patagonian coast, and drank
boat on the open sea; for the great swells now lift the boat high up towards
boat, which, d'ye see, was gunwale and gunwale with mine, then; and snatching
body in it.  They said it was bull-beef; others, that it was dromedary beef;
body may get loose from the ship by reason of a violent storm; and drifting
bolts and the verdigris of copper spikes, yet, untouchable and immaculate to
bones and skeletons, have within thirty years past, at various intervals,
bones stuck into a pair of old trowsers, and two more poked into the sleeves
bore down upon the turkish frigates, and folded them in conflagrations.  The
bound to any haven ahead as rushing from all havens astern.  A stark,
bowels.  I confess, that since Jonah, few whalemen have penetrated very far
bowl-like cavity in his skull, but which bore not the slightest scarry trace,
bowlines; and we ignorantly furled the skirts of our jackets into
brick and mortar, some ten feet by eight square, and five in height.  The
bright coin came from a country planted in the middle of the world, and
brittle, odorless substance, used for mouth-pieces to pipes, for beads and
broken the stems of their pipes almost short off at the bowl, were vigorously
brought by the lee!  look not too long in the face of the fire, O man!  Never
brought them all into so unsavory and unprofitable a pickle.  Sounding him
bulk.  To produce a mighty book, you must choose a
bulwarks, and with a capacious tub beneath it, into which the minced pieces
burly, good-natured, fine-looking man, of sixty or thereabouts, dressed in
burning martyr, or a self-consuming misanthrope, once ignited, the whale
business of preparing the sperm whale for the try-works.  First comes
but Fast-Fish, whereof possession is the whole of the law?  What to the
but a Fast-Fish?  And concerning all these, is not Possession the whole of
but a Fast-Fish?  What to that apostolic lancer, Brother Jonathan, is Texas
but happily, for that time, escaped close contact with the whale; and
but how like all creation it smells!  Now in order to hold direct
but i do not know, for certain, how that was.  they had dumplings too; small,
but not so the English whaler.  Hence, in the English, this thing of whaling
but still sadly to me.  I will quit it, lest Truth shake me falsely.  There
but substantial, symmetrically globular, and indestructible dumplings.  I
butter in April.  He goes and hunts for his oil, so as to be sure of its
by a large, sloping, battened hatchway.  Removing this hatch we expose the
by chopping up and trying out these three masts of ours, than he'll get from
by it, as one river will flow into and then along with another, without at
by night, wondering whose it was to be at last, and whether he would ever
by the Lord, I wont pick you up if you jump; mind that.  We can't afford
bye.
cabalistics, and the keystone sun entering the equinoctial point at Libra.
cable, a telegraph wire, or a strand of cobweb, it is all the same.  Likewise
calendar, and Bowditch's navigator, and Daboll's arithmetic go.  Signs and
call a blasted whale, that is, a whale that has died unmolested on the sea,
called it) to avoid the pest; but still, could not help yelling out his
called the Tertiary formations seem the connecting, or at any rate
called, is a term properly belonging to right whalemen, but sometimes
came into possession?  But often possession is the whole of the law.  What are
can shrink, d'ye see; and a leg that never can run.  Where did'st thou see
cannot solve itself.  Methinks now this coined sun wears a ruddy face; but
cannot understand how it is, that while the Egyptian mummies that were buried
capitals.  Give me a condor's quill!  Give me Vesuvius' crater for an inkstand!
capstan head.  With his ivory arm frankly thrust forth in welcome, the other
capstan, deliver lectures on the anatomy of the Cetacea; and by help of the
captain advanced, and Ahab, putting out his ivory leg, and crossing the ivory
captain snapped his fingers in the plaintiffs' teeth, and assured them that by
captain, observing at a glance how affairs stood, cried out, I see, I see!
captain; he never drinks it; it's a sort of fits to him; fresh water
capture.  But may it not be, that while the whales of the present hour are an
captured by anybody on the coast of that land, the King, as Honorary Grand
caput, et regina caudam.  Bracton, l 3.  c. 3.  Latin from the books of the
carefully, Stubb further perceived that the Guernsey-man had not the
case, however, where the reader is flooded with whole pipes, barrels, quarts,
cattle, should be put to this leviathan, to make him at all budge to any
caught belongs to the King and Queen, because of its superior excellence.
caw!  Ain't I a crow?  And where's the scare-crow?  There he stands; two
ceiling a sculptured and painted planisphere, abounding in centaurs,
cemeteries, in the Greenland dock, a savor is given forth somewhat similar to
cerebellum; and sixpence for the unrivalled view from his forehead.  The
certain Nantucket-born
certain juncture of this post-mortemizing of the whale; and had you strolled
certainly gave forth no very pleasant savor.  But all this is quite different
chance the ship itself at last rescued him; but from that hour the little
chance, then, said the Englishman, good-humoredly.  Well, this old
chapter with the above appeal, but cannot, owing to my anxiety to repel a
chapter; and now I'll read it off, straight out of the book.  Come, Almanack!
charge often made
chase of a whale in the Northern seas; and when indeed they (the plaintiffs)
cheer of these English whalers is matter for historical research.  Nor have I
cheese consumed, seems amazing.  I impute it, though, to their naturally
cistern in the whale's huge head; not the prodigy of his unhinged lower jaw;
clergy --am a strict total abstinence man; I never drink-- Water!  cried the
clinging to the side, that ley quickly exterminates it.  Hands go diligently
co-laborers' hands in it, mistaking their hands for the gentle globules.  Such
cocoa-nut tree, whose plumage-like, tufted droopings seemed his verdant jet.
coil themselves away there for a nap.  While employed in polishing them --one
college of Santa Claus and St.  Pott's, to whom I handed the work for
comes not far behind the united royal houses of the Tudors and Bourbons, in
comes to read,
commenced an excavation in the body, a little behind the side fin.  You would
communication with the people on deck, he had to pull round the bows to the
companions swim around her with every token of concern, sometimes lingering
compared with the living body.  Of this seventy-two feet, his skull and jaw
comprehensiveness of sweep, as if to include the whole circle of the
comprised many minor contingencies, all partaking of this one grand feature.
comprised some twenty feet, leaving some fifty feet of plain back-bone.
comrades quit him.  But strike a member of the harem school, and her
conclude so, if we are to credit the accounts of such gentlemen as Pliny,
concluded, then the crew themselves proceed to their own ablutions; shift
concreted into lumps, here and there rolling about in the liquid part.  It
condemned cell.  And as for the other whale, why, I'll agree to get more oil
confess, that once I stole behind the foremast to try it.  It tasted something
conscious of something fatally wrong.  The jaw-bone tiller smote my side,
considerable degree in its unctuousness.  It is a most refreshing, convivial,
considerably outweigh the combined population of a whole village of one
considering these ribs, I could not but be struck anew with the circumstance,
consists in mincing the horse-pieces of blubber for the pots; an operation
constable by name, a certain sir clifford constable has in his possession the
continued the one-armed commander, I do not know; but in biting the line, it
cook, fire the works.  This was an easy thing, for the carpenter had been
copied verbatim from my right arm, where I had them tattooed; as in my wild
copy of Blackstone under his arm; and laying it upon the whale's head, he
could go hang myself.  Any way, for the present, I'll quit Pip's vicinity.
course of this business, but which I feel it to be very puzzling adequately
course; and all round the hoops, rap, rap, go as many hammers as can play
crack fellows all, and capital from boot heels to hat-band.  But why was it,
cried Ahab, impetuously, and tossing about the oars near him -- Stand by to
cried Bunger,  stoopingly walking round Ahab, and like a dog, strangely
cruising in company, a whale may be struck by one vessel, then escape, and
cub Sperm Whale was once bodily hoisted to the deck for his poke or bag, to
cub?
curing the wound, when whang come the arrows all round; Sagittarius, or the
cursed second iron towing along near me caught me here (clapping his hand
curvicues here with the Massachusetts calendar.  Here's the book.  Let's see
cutting-tackles, and at once cast loose the cables and chains confining the
damocles.  it was a wondrous sight.  the wood was green as mosses of the icy
dark, and stumble in darkness to his pallet, this is his usual lot.  But the
days in the business of boiling out; and in the state that it is casked, the
deaden thee; as for the time it did me.
deafened; and only when we escape it shall we hear the thousand voices that
deafening.  But a day or two after, you look about you, and prick your ears
deck, like so many land slides, till at last man-handled and stayed in their
deck; think of having hangings to the top; object not to taking tea by
deed.  So the pitch and sulphur-freighted brigs of the bold Hydriote, Canaris,
deep; how he is then towed alongside and beheaded; and how (on the
defendants; Lord Ellenborough was the judge.  In the course of the defence,
defilements, and learned to live here in clean tabernacles of the soul;
degenerated.  But still another inquiry remains; one often agitated by the
delight, striking something in the subterranean regions, a purse!  a
denote his gentlemanly rank on board.  His face was an exceedingly round but
dent, sir --removing his hat, and brushing aside his hair, and exposing a
depths, where strange shapes of the unwarped primal world glided to and fro
devils in the fishery; sometimes lowering their boats for breakers, mistaking
did it get there?  And so they'll say in the resurrection, when they come to
die, you ought to die in pickle, you dog; you should be preserved to future
digest that jack-knife, and fully incorporate it into his general bodily
directly upon the palace of the Tuileries; and bones disinterred in
disappointed, especially as the horrible nosegay increased, when suddenly
discourse of parlors, sofas, carpets, and fine cambrics; propose to mat the
discourseth: Ye tail is ye Queen's, that ye Queen's wardrobe may be supplied
discoursing of sperm, it behooves to speak of other things akin to it, in the
dishes a roast-pig?  Surely not.  A veritable witness have you hitherto been,
disinterred in the Rue Dauphine in Paris, a short street opening almost
ditches, canals, and wells, wine-vaults, cellars, and cisterns of all sorts.
divided in the same way as the whale, the King receiving the highly dense and
divinest symbol of the crystal skies, looks like some crown-jewel stolen from
do not make plain; but in that year (
do.  These are scientific commentaries; but the commentaries of the whalemen
doctors declared it a huge reptile, and bestowed upon it the name of
doors of iron.  The intense heat of the fire is prevented from communicating
dramatic midnight, so gloomy-jolly.
dream with thy hand on the helm!  Turn not thy back to the compass; accept
drink.  For, as a general thing, the English merchant-ship scrimps her crew;
drinking; but that if Monsieur wants to live another day to drink, then
drop, fast as the sheets from a rapt orator's desk.  Arrayed in decent black;
duke so very poor as to be forced to this desperate mode of getting a
duty!  no wonder that in old times this sperm was such a favorite cosmetic.
earthly symbol.  So in this vale of Death, God girds us round; and over all
easy to step over into a dark corner when you ate it.  But all in all, taking
eccentric span.  But while hapless Dough-Boy was by nature dull and torpid in
eddying cloud of vulture sea-fowl that circled, and hovered, and swooped
effulgences, infernally superb; then the evil-blazing diamond, once the
elastic head peculiar to that fish, which, symbolically regarded, may
embraced acres of living bulk, and Aldrovandus of others which measured eight
encountering the Frenchman, that a most significant event befell the most
endeavors, the wound kept getting worse and worse; the truth was, sir, it
ended in providing the sometimes madly merry and predestinated craft with a
english captain, he's welcome to the arm he has, since I can't help it,
entangled in it, when at last plumping into the water.  That instant the
enterprise; not overlooking the minutest seminal germs of his blood, and
entire freedom the whaleman takes his handful of lamps --often but old bottles
entrapped in the smell, with no hope of escaping except by its breezing up
entrapped, had most sadly blurred his brightness; though, as ere long will be
entreaties and indignations at times.
especially when I stand a'top of this pine tree here.  Caw!  caw!  caw!  caw!  caw!
ever turn up his nose at such a whale as this, however much he may shun
ever-woven verdant warp and woof intermixed and hummed around him, the mighty
every Low Dutch harpooneer in that ancient Greenland and Spitzbergen whale
every little untoward circumstance that befel him, and which indirectly
every month assuming greener, fresher verdure; but himself a skeleton.  Life
example to all drunken tars.  However, the masts did not go overboard; and by
example.  For, say they, when cruising in an empty ship, if you can get
excavating the great docks of Antwerp, in Napoleon's time.  Cuvier pronounced
exceed in magnitude the fattest of Pharaoh's fat kine; in the face of
exclaimed interrogatively, cut?  meantime pip's blue, choked face plainly
executioner; how, in due time, he is condemned to the pots, and, like
expatiate.  Would you, you could not compress him.  By good rights he
expound it.  First: What is a Fast-Fish?  Alive or dead a fish is technically
expressed his detestation of his Captain as a conceited ignoramus, who had
expressly purchased for that purpose; because that famous lexicographer's
fact is, you books must know your
famous voyage was commanded by a Captain Coffin, a Nantucketer.  All honor to
fancied measurement I please.  Because there are skeleton authorities you can
fancied that you could feel them, and roll them about in you after they were
fancy them to have been, were the right sort of men to stand up in a boat's
far North, be it remembered, where beer agrees well with the constitution;
far away to leeward, be retaken by a second whaler, who, in a calm, snugly
fast, when it is connected with an occupied ship or boat, by any medium at
fat-kettles, and oil sheds; and when the works were in full operation
features, now all begrimed with smoke and sweat, their matted beards, and
features.  But to a large and thorough sweeping comprehension of him, it
feigned to cast off from the whale; hoisting his boats, the Frenchman soon
fellow, now, he banteringly laughed, standing in the ship's bows, there's
felt like eels, and began, as it were, to serpentine and spiralize.  As I sat
few disordered joints; and in place of the weighty and majestic, but boneless
fiend shapes before me, capering half in smoke and half in fire, these at
fight you like grim fiends exasperated by a penal gout.  The Forty-barrel-bull
figure-head put together, sufficiently explained the whole to him.  A wooden
final capture; and the harpoons and line because when the fish made off with
finally bestirred themselves to cleanse the ship, and make a spotless dairy
find it needful.  Now upon the second lowering, the boat paddled upon the
find the unmistakable print of his fin.  In an apartment of the great temple
fine hammered steel of woe.  All is vanity.  ALL.  This wilful world hath
fine vintage of the vineyards of Champagne.
first, be it recorded, that, in this matter, I am not free to utter any
first, the white hump backed through the wreck, as though it was all chips.
first.  In truth, it turned out to be one of those problematical whales that
fish up this old mast, and find a doubloon lodged in it, with bedded oysters
fish.  But a combing sea dashed me off, and at the same instant, the fish,
fishermen have been their own legislators and lawyers in this matter.  They
fishery.  In the first place, the amount of butter, and Texel and Leyden
flames, which at intervals forked forth from the sooty flues, and
fobbing of them.  Now when these poor sun-burnt mariners, bare-footed, and
folded Death; Death trellised Life; the grim god wived with youthful Life,
folded bulb of a bright red color.  Upon her head boards, in large gilt
foolish look to it; yet, if it be really foolish, then has it a sort of
footman will show round future visitors with a bunch of keys at his side.
for Ambergriese in the paunch of this Leviathan, insufferable fetor denying
for a time to become quite maimed; and, temporarily, Pip was put into his
for a time with wood.  After that no wood is used, except as a means of quick
for an old button off some king's trowsers.  But, aside again!  here comes
for my sanity.  So, so, I leave him muttering.  Here's the ship's navel,
for that dried up one, there, he hasn't a gill in his whole carcase.  I
for the pit.  By midnight the works were in full operation.  We were clear
for the shaggy bark.  Oh, the gold!  the precious, precious gold! --the green
foreseeing that all the oil they will get won't be enough to dip the Captain's
forth its vapory spout; while, suspended from a bough, the terrific lower jaw
forth.  But Plowdon gives us the reason for it.  Says Plowdon, the whale so
forty-barrel-bulls, as they call them, are by far the most pugnacious of all
forward nigh the windlass, pretty sure am I that you would have scanned with
forward, and in a loud voice commanded his crew to desist from hoisting the
fossils.  Detached broken fossils of pre-adamite whales, fragments of their
found a silver ring grown over in it; some old darkey's wedding ring.  How
foundation does not penetrate the deck, but the masonry is firmly secured to
free from all ill-will, or petulence, or malice, of any sort whatsoever.
fresh fare they had.  But the forecastle was not very light, and it was very
freshness and genuineness, even as the traveller on the prairie hunts up his
from Stubb; and as for Stubb, he was to utter any nonsense that should come
from a South Sea Sperm Whaler; which in a voyage of four years perhaps,
from him, we gaze for him in vain!  This coin speaks wisely, mildly, truly,
from me he's a baboon.
from out the very heart of this plague, there stole a faint stream of
from starvation; what is that ruinous discount but a Fast-Fish?  What is the
from the Sovereign.  We must needs inquire then on what principle the Sovereign
from the ashes of the burned scraps of the whale, a potent ley is readily
from the carcase; sail had been made; the wind was freshening; the wild
from the whale, the white-horse is first cut into portable oblongs ere going
from the whale.  When the proper time arrives for cutting up its contents,
full grown development, for that rare knowledge I am indebted to my late
full of the precious sperm, the Amelia's example was soon followed by other
full tidiness.  The soot is brushed from the lower rigging.  All the numerous
full-grown magnitude of my friend King Tranquo's.  In both cases, the stranded
fully invested body.  So Owen rechristened the monster Zeuglodon; and in his
fundamentals of all human jurisprudence; For notwithstanding its complicated
furled sails betokened that some sort of whale must be alongside.  As we
furlongs from spiracle to tail, and the yards he measures about the waist;
furnaces, directly underneath the pots.  These mouths are fitted with heavy
gaff is something like a boat-hook.  With his gaff, the gaffman hooks on to a
gain a complete notion of the general structure we are about to view.  In
gentleman's property, along with whatever harpoon might have been found
get some fresh air.  Some thinking they would catch the plague, dipped oakum
gets from poor Woebegone, the bankrupt, on a loan to keep Woebegone's family
getting nothing at all for our pains but our blisters?  It is his.  Is the
getting the heavy tackles in readiness for the whales.  But they worked rather
gives it a good stretching, so as almost to double its diameter; and at last
glance shot like a javelin with the pointed intensity of his purpose; and
glass, to each and every man in turn but mirrors back his own mysterious
glided nearer, the stranger showed French colors from his peak; and by the
gliding so serenely along; as I bathed my hands among those soft, gentle
globe of the moderns.  Gliding among them, old Leviathan swam as of yore; was
globules of infiltrated tissues, woven almost within the hour; as they richly
gloom, now and then made ghastly by flashes of redness.  Uppermost was the
glow; yet, when the cunning jeweller would show you the diamond in its most
go back for a moment.  It was about nine o'clock at night that the Pequod's
gold-hunters.  And all the time numberless fowls were diving, and ducking, and
gold.  And what's the horse-shoe sign?  The lion is the horse-shoe sign --the
golden, glad sun, the only true lamp --all others but liars!  Nevertheless the
good God, the barb ript its way along the flesh --clear along the whole length
good ale with their cronies, upon the strength of their respective shares;
good cheer is not normal and natural, but incidental and particular; and,
good flip down in the forecastle.  It was a fine gam we had, and they were all
good luck would have it, they had had a whale alongside a day or two
gorgeous hills, whence, east and west, over golden sands, the head-waters of
gorges, and soar out of them again and become invisible in the sunny spaces.
got foul of his teeth, caught there somehow; but we didn't know it then; so
grapes their wine; as I snuffed up that uncontaminated aroma, --literally and
great chest of drawers, you can open and shut him, in all his bony cavities
great glory in killing him, I know that; and there is a ship-load of
great try-pots, two in number, and each of several barrels' capacity.  When
great, white, worshipped skeleton lay lounging --a gigantic idler!  Yet, as the
great-grandfather, with the white head and hump, runs all afoam into the pod,
griffins, and dolphins, similar to the grotesque figures on the celestial
had cooled and crystallized to such a degree, that when, with several others,
had succeeded in harpooning the fish; they were at last, through peril of
hair-powders, and pomatum.  The Turks use it in cooking, and also carry it to
hand! -- but one single word with thee!  Nay --the shuttle flies --the figures
hands into a trumpet and shouted -- No, Sir!  No!  Upon which Ahab retired,
hangs it, well spread, in the
hard upon what are now the Tropics; and in all the 25,000 miles of this
hardly is this done, when -- There she blows! --the ghost is spouted up, and
harpoon-pole sticking in him, and for a moment clung to that like a sucking
harpooneer sleepy at the mast-head and boozy in his boat; and grievous loss
harpooneers wildly gesticulated with their huge pronged forks and dippers; as
harpoons, and boat, which had remained attached to the whale at the time of
has not been added how that sometimes in these walks, when most plunged in
hatch, removed from the top of the works, now afforded a wide hearth in front
hath more of joy than sorrow in him, that mortal man cannot be true --not true,
have layn there a hundred Years before I saw it.  Their Historians affirm,
have left their mouldings there since yesterday, murmured Starbuck to
have made, and which I partly base upon Captain Scoresby's estimate, of
have provided a system which for terse comprehensiveness surpasses Justinian's
have tasted, supposing him to have been killed the first day after the venison
have to say.  There; he's before it; he'll out with something presently.  So,
have villanies been detected.  Ah, mortal!  then, be heedful; for so, in all
have ye seen him?  Never heard of such a whale.  Cachalot Blanche!  White
he could hardly hope to attain.  It has before been hinted, perhaps, that
he held in one hand, and a pill-box held in the other, occasionally casting
he is chased over the watery moors, and slaughtered in the valleys of the
he only thinks to terrify by feints.  But sometimes he is like the old
he should give undiluted conscientious advice to Pip, he would be leaving him
he stands on will sometimes irresistibly slide away from him, like a sledge.
he supposed, no doubt, that they would of course come up to Pip very quickly,
he was standing in the boat's stern, and the Manilla men were springing to
he's been studying Murray's Grammar!  Improving his mind, poor fellow!  But
head, and take good aim at flying whales; this would seem somewhat
head-waters of the Eternities, it may be fitly inquired, whether, in the
headed over, end for end, and sometimes perilously scoot across the slippery
headlong we are tossed; when Aquarius, or the Water-bearer, pours out his
heaps; and among the joyous, heartless, ever-juvenile eternities, Pip saw the
hearse-driver, he must have been, that is, before he took to the sea.  He
heart of the learned gentleman with the copy of Blackstone.  At length one of
hearty!  let us shake bones together! --an arm and a leg! --an arm that never
heat of the fire, till their eyes felt scorched in their heads.  Their tawny
heave the heavy windlass, and cut and slash, yea, and in their very
heaven without any of Savesoul's help) what is that globular 100,000 but a
her from truck to helm, considering the dimensions of the cook's boilers,
her own.  Now, in the whale ship, it is not every one that goes in the boats.
her, and destroyed the idol, and burnt it for an abomination at the brook
here's nine hundred and sixty of them; so here goes Flask aloft to spy 'em
here's signs and wonders truly!  That, now, is what old Bowditch in his
hermetically closed, like a closet walled up.  In the sperm fishery, this is
hey, Jenny, Jenny!  and get your hoe-cake done!
hiding the pots; every cask is out of sight; all tackles are coiled in
high-bred, stall-fed, prize cattle of Smithfield, not only equal, but far
higher than other birds upon the plain, even though they soar.
him in most of his present habitatory and anatomical peculiarities, it now
him like great cables and hausers coiled away in the subterranean orlop-deck
him nights; was very severe with him in the matter of diet-- Oh, very
him to completely digest even a
him, while employed in the peculiar functions of his office.  That office
himself fast, and at the same time also helped to hoist his own weight, by
himself, leaning against the bulwarks.  The old
his angry flukes; only on the profound unbounded sea, can the fully invested
his benevolence.  But we are all in the hands of the Gods; and Pip jumped
his cabin to drink a bottle of Bordeaux.  He wants you to take a glass of wine
his chest and neck.  Tashtego stood in the bows.  He was full of the fire of
his crew were dropped to the water, and were soon alongside of the stranger.
his intellects, Pip, though over tender-hearted, was at bottom very bright,
his ivory heel -- it minds me of the noble, solid, Saxon hospitality of that
his mood, he was wont to pause in turn at each spot, and stand there
his mother did; he was born with it.  Oh, you solemn rogue, you --you Bunger!
his retired palm villa at Pupella; a sea-side glen not very far distant from
his unobstructed bones.  But as the colossal skull embraces so very large a
hissing masses of blubber into the scalding pots, or stirred up the fires
hitherto discovered belong to the Tertiary period, which is the last
hoisting operations previously detailed, were regularly gone through, even to
hold it on.  Fine day, aint it?  Air rather gardenny, I should say; throw us
home to Holland for that purpose.  It was a collection of furnaces,
honest clergyman of the town respectfully addressed a note to his Grace,
hose, unbuckling his garters, and casting loose the hooks and the eyes of
hours; when from the boat, where they have swelled their wrists with all day
house of enderby and sons; a house which in my poor whaleman's opinion,
however wanton in their sailor ways, one and all, the mariners revered it as
huge drooping stalk, was painted green, and for thorns had copper spikes
hump!  instead of the other whale's that went off to windward, all fluking.
hundred and sixty-five Fourth of Julys and New Year's Days.  Nor smile so,
hunted, for all that.  What is best let alone, that accursed thing is not
hunters in all similar instances; and such instances not unfrequently occur;
idler seemed the cunning weaver; himself all woven over with the vines;
idol of Queequeg.  And an idol, indeed, it is; or, rather, in old times, its
if there happen to be an unduly slender, clumsy, or timorous wight in the
ignition to the staple fuel.  In a word, after being tried out, the crisp,
ill-humor or envy!  Come; let us squeeze hands all round; nay, let us all
illuminated every lofty rope in the rigging, as with the famed Greek fire.
implements which have been in use are likewise faithfully cleansed and put
impression, that whatever swift, rushing thing I stood on was not so much
impressive lustre, he lays it against a gloomy ground, and then lights it
improbable.  Yet they did aim at them, and hit them too.  But this was very
in Hull, England, one of the whaling ports of that country, where they have
in allaying the heat of anger: while bathing in that bath, I felt divinely
in coal-tar, and at intervals held it to their nostrils.  Others having
in depth.  Now, the greatest depth of the invested body of this particular
in dishonor, but raised in glory.  And likewise call to mind that saying of
in fobbing his perquisites; which are his chiefly by virtue of that same
in former times, of a Dutch village called Schmerenburgh or Smeerenberg,
in high excitement, eagerly helping their chief, and looking as anxious as
in my diet.  Oh!  a great watcher, and very dietetically severe, is Dr.
in one kind of world, you see.  Dodge again!  here comes Queequeg --all
in pangs!  So be it, then!  Here's stout stuff for woe to work on.  So be it,
in set terms decided, to wit, --That as for the boat, he awarded it to the
in some enchanted way, inverted.  My God!  what is the matter with me?  thought
in such matters.  But why should the King have the head, and the Queen the
in the Tertiary system (embracing a distinct geological period prior to man),
in the earlier geological strata there are found the fossils of monsters now
in the sequel of the narrative, it will then be seen what like abandonment
in the spinal column; threepence to hear the echo in the hollow of his
in this case the alleged right of the Duke to the whale was a delegated one
in this self-same ship; and were it not for the tell-tale boats and
in width something less than three feet, and in depth more than four.  The
inches long.  I measured it with the lead line.  In short, it grew black; I
inches.  In general thickness, they all bore a seemly correspondence to their
inches; they cracked each other's sconces with their yard-sticks -- the great
incidentally used by the sperm fishermen.  It designates the dark, glutinous
including his own live parchment boilers; fore and aft, I say, the Samuel
increased his distance, while the Pequod slid in between him and Stubb's
indeed can the whale possibly be otherwise than fragrant, when, as a general
indeed is it regarded by some, that no cupidity could persuade them to moor
indefatigable house again bestirred itself: Samuel and all his Sons --how
industrious earth beneath was as a weaver's loom, with a gorgeous carpet on
inferior article). 550 ankers of Geneva. 10,800 barrels of beer.  Most
insanity came over me; and I found myself unwittingly squeezing my
insanity is heaven's sense; and wandering from all mortal reason, man comes
inscrutably constructed by Divine Providence, that it is quite impossible for
inserted, and the keel is otherwise, for the time, but a long, disconnected
insignificant of the Pequod's crew; an event most lamentable; and which
insignificant opinion, I regard this as queer.  I have seen doubloons before
inspectingly.  He goes below; let me read.  A dark valley between three
instituted an action to recover possession of her.  Erskine was on the other
intercepted links, between the antichronical creatures, and those whose
internationally and universally applicable.  What was America in
interpreter's office, was to tell the Captain what he pleased, but as coming
into each other; let us squeeze ourselves universally into the very milk and
invited to spend part of the Arsacidean holidays with the lord of Tranque, at
involuntary consternation of the moment caused him to leap, paddle in hand,
is a Catskill eagle in some souls that can alike dive down into the blackest
is a short firm strip of tendinous stuff cut from the tapering part of
is content too with scraping the dry bones of that other precious fish he has
is never found except upon the sea.  Besides, amber is a hard, transparent,
is no fixture; and if, at midnight, we would fain snatch some sweet solace
is originally invested with that right.  The law itself has already been set
is the term bestowed upon certain fragmentary parts of the whale's flesh, here
is to be repeated concerning it in this chapter, you must not fail to carry
is to say, in his unconditional skeleton.  But how now, Ishmael?  How is it,
is to this day in force in England; and as it offers in various respects a
is ugly, too, for when aught's nailed to the mast it's a sign that things grow
is very large, 10,800 barrels.  Now, as those polar fisheries could only be
is, three hundred and sixty feet.  And Lacepede, the French naturalist, in his
issuing from their midnight harbors, with broad sheets of flame for sails,
it deck?  wherefore all these ceaseless toilings?  Speak, weaver! --stay thy
it every year, and yet comes out of it all alive and hearty.  Jollily he,
it for his royal master and mistress?  What was Poland to the Czar?  What
it in your mind, or under your arm, as we proceed, otherwise you will not
it is of a hue between yellow and ash color.  And this, good friends, is
it set down here, that she hailed from London, and was named after the late
it!  Look you, Doubloon, your zodiac here is the life of man in one round
it, whereof the ground-vine tendrils formed the warp and woof, and the
it.  Arrived then at this spot, with one hand still to his nose, he bawled
it; and there goes Starbuck from the same, and both with faces which I
it; free the fast-fish --an old trick --I know him.  How it was exactly,
its brilliancy; behold yon lustrous ebony, panelled in king's cabinets.  But
its convex part uppermost, makes an Arch, the Head of which cannot be
its many winding, shaded collonades and arbors.  But soon my line was out;
its redness makes all things look ghastly.  To-morrow, in the natural sun,
its unmanufactured, and, therefore, unvitiated state; a fluid unknown to
itself to the deck, by means of a shallow reservoir extending under the entire
jack-knife, and breaking the seal and reading all the contents of that young
jaw.  Locks are to be put upon some of his trap-doors and shutters; and a
jeopardized through their own timidity, is not always manifested by the
juggling fellow, formerly a patient of mine in Ceylon, that making believe
just below his shoulder); yes, caught me just here, I say, and bore me down
keep cool--cool?  yes, that's the word; why don't you pack those whales in ice
kept up an unextinguished aromatic flame, so that the mystic head again sent
kindred doctrine of Loose-Fish is still more widely so.  That is
kingdoms, on all hands coercing alms of beggars?  It will readily be seen that
knew what was threatened, and off it came.
know that well enough; but, d'ye see, the Captain here won't believe it;
labors, which know no night; continuing straight through for ninety-six
lamps flashing upon his hooded eyes.  In merchantmen, oil for the sailor is
landsman's imagination?  Having already in various ways put before you his
large sized modern whale.  And I have heard, on whalemen's authority, that
last begat kindred visions in my soul, so soon as I began to yield to that
last?  Which way heading?  Bless my soul, and curse the foul fiend's,
laws and regulations of the whale fishery, of which the waif may be deemed
leaning over the quarter-deck rail awaiting his report, he moulded his two
leap into their faces.  Opposite the mouth of the works, on the further side
learned Low Dutch book treated of the commerce of Holland; and, among other
learned.  Though the word ambergris is but the French compound for grey amber,
least ninety tons; so that reckoning thirteen men to a ton, he would
least, what untattooed parts might remain --I did not trouble myself with the
least; and that leg, too?  Spin me the yarn, said Ahab; how was it?  It
leaving their defunct bodies almost entirely bankrupt of anything like oil.
left his pre-adamite traces in the stereotype plates of nature, and in
length his spade struck against the gaunt ribs, it was like turning up old
length, the Sperm Whale's skeleton at Tranque measured seventy-two feet; so
length.  The middle ribs were the most arched.  In some of the Arsacides they
less than seventy feet in length in the skeleton.  Whereas, we have already
letters you saw the likeness of three Andes' summits; from one a flame; a
letters, he read Bouton de Rose, --Rose-button, or Rose-bud; and this was
like a marble steeple.  No use sterning all, then; but as I was groping at
like the flames from the furnace; as to and fro, in their front, the
likeness was.  Such an idol as that found in the secret groves of Queen
limb enough?  What should I do without this other arm?  And I'm thinking Moby
limestone and marl bequeathed his ancient bust; but upon Egyptian tablets,
list of the outfits for the larders and cellars of 180 sail of Dutch whalemen;
litigated in England, wherein the plaintiffs set forth that after a hard
little King-Post; dodge round the try-works, now, and let's hear what he'll
live to spend it.  Now those noble golden coins of South America are as
livelihood?  It is his.  I thought to relieve my old bed-ridden mother by
livelong nights shrouded with thick darkness which might cover any pilfering
livers; and that the English whalers have not neglected so excellent an
living and ever accompanying prophecy of whatever shattered sequel might prove
living bulk of this leviathan, whose skeleton we are briefly to exhibit.
living flowers the figures.  All the trees, with all their laden branches;
living thing within; naught was there but bones.
locked together.  They mostly lie like the great knobbed blocks on a Gothic
long course of his generations, he has not degenerated from the original bulk
long; for in the whale, the skeleton loses about one fifth in length
longer, till you came to the climax of the fifth, or one of the middle ribs,
look, they look.  Why, he's getting it by heart --hist!  again.  I look,
look, you look, he looks; we look, ye look, they look.  Upon my soul,
looked, Do, for God's sake!  All passed in a flash.  In less than half a
loom, and spoke it; and therefore his shipmates called him mad.  So man's
loose-fish, in which Columbus struck the Spanish standard by way of waifing
lower!  In less than a minute, without quitting his little craft, he and
luffs up before the doubloon; halloa, and goes round on the other side of the
made; and whenever any adhesiveness from the back of the whale remains
magic, allures along with it all impurities.  But to learn all about these
magnifying, is the virtue of a large and liberal theme!  We expand to its
magnitude of that part.  Besides, for some way, where I now saw but a naked
magnitude, between eighty-five and ninety feet in length, and something less
main-mast, the most roomy part of the deck.  The timbers beneath are of a
make sheaths for the barbs of the harpoons, and for the heads of the lances.
malice is only his awkwardness.  For he never means to swallow a single limb;
man for a sea-captain, with large whiskers and moustache, however; and wore
man in each pot, side by side --many confidential communications are carried
man looking at this decision of the very learned Judge, might possibly object
man seems to read Belshazzar's awful writing.  I have never marked the coin
man's arm?  And he knows it too.  So that what you take for the White Whale's
many a Pactolus flows.  And though now nailed amidst all the rustiness of iron
many, their mother only knows --and under their immediate auspices, and
mariners into full consideration.  To which my Lord Duke in substance replied
marvelled that the priests should swear that smoky jet of his was genuine.  To
masonry of that side is exposed, penetrated by the two iron mouths of the
mast; why, there's a horse-shoe nailed on that side; and now he's back
matters of barbaric vertu, had brought together in Pupella whatever rare
me; I've lowered for him once, and that has satisfied me.  There would be
means creatures of ill odor; nor can whalemen be recognised, as the people of
means the mould of his invested form.  The largest of the Tranque ribs, one
measured but little more than eight feet.  So that this rib only conveyed half
medals of the sun and tropic token-pieces.  Here palms, alpacas, and
meditation.  It was in the left hand try-pot of the Pequod, with the
men intent on spying out more whales, which, if caught, infallibly will again
mentioned as the receptacle for the blanket-pieces, when stript and hoisted
midday, with a blinding sun, all crown-jewels; as I was groping, I say,
might be considered as indirectly substantiated by what has been said of the
might be sailors' trousers buttons; but it afterwards turned out that they
might ensue to Nantucket and New Bedford.  But no more; enough has been said
mighty theme.  No great and enduring volume can ever be written on the flea,
mighty, heaven-abiding peaks, that almost seem the Trinity, in some faint
mincer now stands before you invested in the full canonicals of his calling.
mind to pawn one arm for the sake of the privilege of giving decent burial to
mine once.  He flies into diabolical passions sometimes.  Do ye see this
minute, this entire thing happened.  Damn him, cut!  roared Stubb; and so
minute.  Then rapidly pulling back towards the Pequod, and seeing Ahab
miscellaneous time i have been a stone-mason, and also a great digger of
miser 'll hoard ye soon!  Hish!  hish!  God goes 'mong the worlds
mollifier!  After having my hands in it for only a few minutes, my fingers
moment, Ahab had forgotten that since the loss of his leg he had never once
money, and would be obliged to the reverend gentleman if for the future he
monomaniac commander's soul.  So seemed it to me, as I stood at her helm,
monomaniac way whatever significance might lurk in them.  And some certain
moon.  The sun hides not the ocean, which is the dark side of this earth,
moonlight on the piazza of the forecastle.  To hint to such musked mariners of
more curious of such remains is part of a skull, which in the year
more deadly than the blasted one; in fine, Monsieur, he conjures us, as we
more fit to command a whale-ship than a St.  Jago monkey.  In fact, tell him
more scarce than the milk of queens.  To dress in the dark, and eat in the
motion of a Sperm Whale's flukes above water dispenses a perfume, as when a
mountains; so that even in his lowest swoop the mountain eagle is still
mouth, Possession is half of the law: that is, regardless of how the thing
much diluted and pickled it to my taste.  The beef was fine --tough, but with
much of which covers the decks of those inferior souls who hunt that ignoble
multitudinous, God-omnipresent, coral insects, that out of the firmament of
muscle, blood, and bowels.  Still more, for the ample fins, I here saw but a
musk-scented lady rustles her dress in a warm parlor.  What then shall I liken
my ship, interrupted the one-armed captain, addressing Ahab; go on, boy.
my soapstone for example, will descend from any point in precisely the same
narrated to each other their unholy adventures, their tales of terror told in
nations to lower a whale-boat of any sort in the great South Sea.  The
natives pledge each other in bumpers of train oil.  The quantity of beer, too,
nearly six feet long; the second, third, and fourth were each successively
needs exist after all humane ages are over.  But not alone has this Leviathan
negro went about the deck an idiot; such, at least, they said he was.  The
never look so white as just after what they call an affair of oil.  Besides,
night the ship's black hull still houses an illumination.  See with what
no external chimneys; they open direct from the rear wall.  And here let us
no mortal voice; and by that humming, we, too, who look on the loom are
no small curiosity a very strange, enigmatical object, which you would have
no.  only in the heart of quickest perils; only when within the eddyings of
not be, that since Adam's time they have degenerated?  Assuredly, we must
not got hold of unchristian Solomon's wisdom yet.  But he who dodges hospitals
not hopefulness.  But one morning, turning to pass the doubloon, he seemed
not in use, they are kept remarkably clean.  Sometimes they are polished
not inquiry.  Sir T. Browne, V. E.  It was a week or two after the last
not mean The Cooper, but The Merchant.  In short, this ancient and
not mine; he ordered the carpenter to make it; he had that club-hammer there
not only that, but you must live in it for the time.  It has an unspeakable,
not stand to assert, that the Prophet Jonas was cast forth by the Whale at
not the miracle of his symmetrical tail; none of these would so surprise you,
nothing better out of the world, get a good dinner out of it, at least.  And
now in my voyagings; your doubloons of old Spain, your doubloons of Peru,
now's the old Mogul, soliloquized Stubb by the try-works, he's been twigging
now.  Signs and wonders; and the sun, he's always among 'em.  Hem, hem, hem;
ocean darkness was intense.  But that darkness was licked up by the fierce
odd inches; nor, indeed, should inches at all enter into a congenial
of Denderah, some fifty years ago, there was discovered upon the granite
of a line-of-battle-ship.  Since I have undertaken to manhandle this
of a monstrous size are oftentimes cast up dead upon that shore.  The Common
of an old jacket.  Wonder if he means me? --complimentary! --poor lad! --I
of babyish to me, though I don't pretend to be a judge.  He says, Monsieur,
of citron.  Spite of reason, it is hard to keep yourself from eating it.  I
of difference between the male and female schools is still more characteristic
of doors; though, it is true, seldom in the open air.  I say, that the
of eating, and drinking, and laughing?  I will tell you.  The abounding good
of gin.  Now, whether these gin and beer harpooneers, so fuddled as one might
of his sires.  But upon investigation we find, that not only are the whales of
of it, towards the pointed extremity, and then cutting two slits for
of my arm --came out nigh my wrist, and up i floated; --and that gentleman
of my own, touching the probable quantity of stock-fish, etc., consumed by
of something that looked like ripe Windsor soap, or rich mottled old cheese;
of tastefully-ornamented man-ropes; for at first they did not seem to bethink
of the Academy of Sciences setting down certain Iceland Whales
of the Greenland or Right whale was largely used in ladies' bodices.  But this
of the crown's ordinary revenue.  I know not that any other author has hinted
of the dead.  Give not thyself up, then, to fire, lest it invert thee,
of the great stress of her plunging viciousness, had as last abandoned her;
of the honor, being a very fast sailer and a noble craft every way.  I
of the matter; but by inference it seems to me that the sturgeon must be
of the middle ones, occupied that part of the fish which, in life, is greatest
of the sea, poor Pip turned his crisp, curling, black head to the sun,
of the sexes.  Say you strike a Forty-barrel-bull --poor devil!  all his
of the skeleton; as it is by far the most complicated part; and as nothing
of the true notion of the living
of the whale and the lady were reciprocally illustrative of each other.  These
of the wide wooden hearth, was the windlass.  This served for a sea-sofa.
of the yarn.  The professional gentleman thus familiarly pointed out, had
of their whale, line, harpoons, and boat.  Mr. Erskine was counsel for the
of them.  Standing on this were the Tartarean shapes of the pagan harpooneers,
of understanding shall remain ( i.  e.  even while living) in the congregation
off for the stranger.  Drawing across her bow, he perceived that in accordance
oil is nearly scentless.  The truth is, that living or dead, if but decently
on the Englishman's shoulder, as he did so.  Aye, he was the cause of it, at
on the sea-coast, is also dug up in some far inland soils, whereas ambergris
on, over the iron lips.  It is a place also for profound mathematical
once more hailing a ship showing English colors, bearing down under the
one of the most extraordinary creatures which the mutations of the globe have
one of these Dutch whalemen, including the short voyage to and from the
one star-belled tambourine.  So, though in the clear air of day, suspended
only makes a sign to the sign and bows himself; there is a sun on the coin
only think of the gigantic involutions of his intestines, where they lie in
oozy, stringy affair, most frequently found in the tubs of sperm, after a
operas than hell; calls Cowper, Young, Pascal, Rousseau, poor devils all of
or the Archer.  No: he don't know what to make of the doubloon; he takes it
or undeveloped.  With books the same.  The truest of all men was the Man of
originally harpooned the lady, and had once had her fast, and only by reason
ornaments; but ambergris is soft, waxy, and so highly fragrant and spicy,
ostentatiously put on the aspect of interpreting between them.  What shall I
other animals sculptured on the oldest Egyptian and Nineveh tablets, by the
other grand and lofty things; look here, --three peaks as proud as Lucifer.
our gloom, the sun of Righteousness still shines a beacon and a hope.  If we
our old man has thought of that.  It's worth trying.  Yes, I'm for it; and
out a most unusually long tow-line.  Presently a breeze sprang up; Stubb
out of the boat; and in such a way, that part of the slack whale line coming
out of you like billiard-balls.  The bread --but that couldn't be helped;
out.  Shall I call that wise or foolish, now; if it be really wise it has a
outer aspect; or separately and in detail upon some few interior structural
outrageous moral injustice for one party to claim possession of a whale
oversee the business.  All ready there?  Off hatch, then, and start her.  You
owen, the english anatomist, it turned out that this alleged reptile was a
own smoke!  for his smoke is horrible to inhale, and inhale it you must, and
own supper of game.
panic-striking business in which he had somehow unaccountably become
paper read before the London Geological Society, pronounced it, in substance,
paracelsus about what it is that maketh the best musk.  Also forget not the
part of my share of this whale.  It is his.  Won't the Duke be content
part of the description by rehearsing --singing, if I may -- the romantic
parties (meaning himself and mate) and concluded by inviting Stubb down into
partly, I think, at their expense, the British government was induced to send
parts of my body to remain a blank page for a poem I was then composing --at
parts.  Sir Clifford's whale has been articulated throughout; so that, like a
passing through those fancy mints, so Spanishly poetic.  It so chanced that
paw; we escape, and hail Virgo, the Virgin!  that's our first love; we marry
peculiar strength, fitted to sustain the weight of an almost solid mass of
pedigree like Leviathan?  Ahab's harpoon had shed older blood than the
pelt of a boa.  This done he turns the pelt inside out, like a pantaloon leg;
people of the whole globe who so harpooned him.  In
perceived, respected sir --said the imperturbable godly-looking Bunger,
perfume, which flowed through the tide of bad smells without being absorbed
perhaps improving it in quality.
perhaps one of the most remarkable incidents in all the business of whaling.
perhaps, might have been secured were it not for impatient Ahab's loud command
peril, and some expense, and is all that to go to the Duke's benefit; we
perpendicular ladder of nailed cleets there, and swinging towards him a pair
perpendicularly chopping it into the portable horse-pieces.  This spade is
pine tree.  My father, in old Tolland county, cut down a pine tree once, and
place, I wish to lay before you a particular, plain statement, touching the
place.  The first time Stubb lowered with him, Pip evinced much nervousness;
places.  You'll do to give us the bare words and facts, but we come in to
plague, when the living are incompetent to bury the departed.  So intolerable
plain, business-like, but still half humorous manner, cursed Pip officially;
plainly heard without the walls, bursting from the opened casements.  Thereby
plaintiffs, because they had merely abandoned it to save their lives; but
plantation of Judge Creagh, in Alabama.  The awe-stricken credulous slaves in
pleadings, and the counter pleadings, being duly heard, the very learned judge
pocket, and drawing near to Ahab's arm.  Avast!  roared Ahab, dashing him
point of real historical interest.  How long, prior to the year of our Lord 0083
point of view.  Applied to any other creature than the Leviathan --to an ant or
point! --his pulse makes these planks beat! --sir! --taking a lancet from his
pointing his ivory
policeman or beadle, called a Lord Warden.  Holding the office directly from
politely bowed, and straightway went on to do his captain's bidding.  It was
ponderous knees of iron bracing it on all sides, and screwing it down to the
poor little negro was assailed by yells and execrations from the crew.
poring over his dead attenuated skeleton, stretched in this peaceful wood.
possesses a singularly cleansing virtue.  This is the reason why the decks
possibly be humorously grounded upon some presumed congeniality.  And thus
preceding the superficial formations.  And though none of them precisely
precious jolly rascal.) But, heave ahead, boy, I'd rather be killed by you
precious oil and bone; and in fantasy sipping rare tea with their wives, and
precious sperm in him, but, hark ye, he's best let alone; don't you think
precise origin of ambergris remained, like amber itself, a problem to the
present of a little oil for dear charity's sake.  For what oil he'll get from
present, and to come, with all the revolving panoramas of empire on earth,
presto!  poor Pip came all foaming up to the chocks of the boat,
previous, and the great tackles were still aloft, and the massive curved
previously chased or killed by another party.  But others are by no means so
principle which entitled the headsman of old to the garments in which the
principles laid down in the twin whaling laws previously quoted, and applied
privilege of discoursing upon the joists and beams; the rafters, ridge-pole,
proceeding of decanting off his oil into the casks and striking them down into
proceeds cylindrically to remove its dark pelt, as an African hunter the
profound
projecting from it here and there; the whole terminating in a symmetrical
prolonged squeezing, and subsequent decanting.  I hold it to be the
prompts the English railways to be at the expense of a separate car, specially
proof of the fact that the above-mentioned law is still in force, I proceed to
property under certain limitations, and nominally supplying the tenth branch
proportion of the entire extent
proprietors call the only perfect specimen of a Greenland or River Whale in
prosecuted in the short summer of that climate, so that the whole cruise of
pulling hand-over-hand upon one of the running parts of the tackle.  Soon he
purchased, was duly brought to the Pequod's side, where all those cutting and
purse!  Dropping his spade, he thrust both hands in, and drew out handfuls
put to the end, to knock some one's brains out with, I suppose, as he tried
putting my fingers to the lids and mechanically stretching them still further
pyres.  It smells like the left wing of the day of judgment; it is an argument
qualities, my royal friend Tranquo, being gifted with a devout love for all
quality, and by no means of the nature of attar-of-rose.  Coming still nearer
quarter-boat, his ivory leg plainly revealed to the stranger captain, who
quarter-deck enormous masses of the whale's head are profanely piled; great
quickly lowered to Ahab, who at once comprehending it all, slid his solitary
raging gale, had been found dead and stranded, with his head against a
raised, it must be in a month and a day, when the sun stands in some one of
rapacious landlord is the widow's last mite but a Fast-Fish?  What is yonder
rate of ten gallons the hour; and when the squall came (for it's squally off
reached by a Man upon a Camel's Back.  This Rib (says John Leo) is said to
reader, and if you be a Nantucketer, and a whaleman, you will silently worship
reap the fruit of his unrighteous cunning.  Seizing his sharp boat-spade, he
recondite matters, your best way is at once to descend into the blubber-room,
redness, the madness, the ghastliness of others.  The continual sight of the
refer to, to test my accuracy.  There is a Leviathanic Museum, they tell me,
rejoined Stubb, and with that he soon mounted to the deck.  There a queer
related how the great leviathan is afar off descried from the mast-head; how
relative proportions in which they are drawn, just as plainly prove that the
remains to magnify him in an archaeological, fossiliferous, and antediluvian
remark --that I myself --that is to say, Jack Bunger, late of the reverend
remorselessly dragged there by the line, which had taken several turns around
remote posterity are said to have entered the Ark; all the Fossil Whales
researches in the leviathanic histories, I stumbled upon an ancient Dutch
resemblances to the existing breeds of sea-monsters; but at the same time
reserved for the accommodation of royalty.  In the first place, in curious
reservoir is kept replenished with water as fast as it evaporates.  There are
rest, blame not Stubb too hardly.  The thing is common in that fishery; and
returned to them.  Why, let me see; yes, you may as well tell him now that --
revealed in the capricious emblazonings of the works.  As they
ribs diminished, till the tenth and last only spanned five feet and some
rich, mottled tint, with a bestreaked snowy and golden ground, dotted with
ride in a spring-carriage ashore.  But the awful lonesomeness is intolerable.
rigging, to dry.  Ere long, it is taken down; when removing some three feet
riveted glance fastened upon the riveted gold coin there, he still wore the
roaring and devouring lion.  Ship, old ship!  my old head shakes to think of
room of it; many is the time the poor fellows, just buttoning the necks of
rose-bud, eh?  he cried with his hand to his nose, that will do very well;
round border it bore the letters, REPUBLICA DEL ECUADOR: QUITO.  So this
round gold is but the image of the rounder globe, which, like a magician's
round so, that my boat's crew could only trim dish, by sitting all their
round world itself but an empty cipher, except to sell by the cartload, as
round, to the horizon, like gold-beater's skin hammered out to the extremest.
routine again.  Oh!  the metempsychosis!  Oh!  Pythagoras, that in bright
royal friend Tranquo, king of Tranque, one of the Arsacides.  For being at
rudimental manufacturing stages, is the worst.  I should like to conclude the
rule --pointing at it with the marlingspike -- that is the captain's work,
rusty casks lie about, as in a brewery yard; the smoke from the try-works has
ruthless detestation peculiar to military navies and armies.
said that in a whaling voyage the first fire in the try-works has to be fed
said, that whenever it has been convenient to consult one in the course of
sailed with thee along the Peruvian coast last voyage -- and, foolish as I am,
sailors, had all died of a fever caught from a blasted whale they had brought
same aspect of nailed firmness, only dashed with a certain wild longing, if
same bone is not in the tail; it is in the head, which is a sad mistake for
say to him first?  said he.  Why, said Stubb, eyeing the velvet vest and the
says -- Hands off!  this fish, my masters, is a Fast-Fish.  I seize it as the
scene presented itself.  The sailors, in tasselled caps of red worsted, were
schools are larger than the harem schools.  Like a mob of young collegians,
sciences, and all the generations of whales, and men, and mastodons, past,
screaming, and yelling, and fighting around them.  Stubb was beginning to look
scrupulous.  Some fifty years ago there was a curious case of whale-trover
sea had jeeringly kept his finite body up, but drowned the infinite of his
season, and that particular venison season contemporary with an unusually
see!  aye, he enters the sign of storms, the equinox!  and but six months
seem
seems almost to derive an added preciousness and enhancing glories, by
seems that some honest mariners of Dover, or Sandwich, or some one of the
seen there, lying along lengthwise in the lee scuppers.  Not the wondrous
seen, that the tape-measure gives seventy-two feet for the skeleton of a
seen, what was thus temporarily subdued in him, in the end was destined to
segment of the partitioned zodiac, the signs all marked with their usual
self.  Great pains, small gains for those who ask the world to solve them; it
separately go about in quest of settlements, that is, harems.  Another point
service to us.  Hearing this, the captain vowed that they were the grateful
sets down the Right Whale at one hundred metres, three hundred and
seventy tons for the largest sized Greenland whale of sixty feet in length;
severe!  chimed in the patient himself; then suddenly altering his voice,
sharp as hone can make it; the spademan's feet are shoeless; the thing
sheath, he suspended its sharp edge over the line, and turning towards Stubb,
sheet of blubber, and strives to hold it from slipping, as the ship pitches
sheltered it.  The ribs were hung with trophies; the vertebrae were carved
ship new-laid upon the stocks, when only some twenty of her naked bow-ribs are
ship's stern, with my back to her prow and the compass.  In an instant I faced
ship, that wight is certain to be made a ship-keeper.  It was so in the
ship-keepers are as hardy fellows as the men comprising the boats' crews.  But
ship; and may my parson forget me, and the devil remember me, if I ever lose
ships in London, more than two centuries ago.  Because those whalemen did not
ships that ever regularly hunted the Sperm Whale; though for some score of
ships, English and American, and thus the vast Sperm Whale grounds of the
shortness of the season in those Icy Seas, and the sudden and violent storms
should only be treated of in imperial folio.  Not to tell over again his
should regard a chapel as an object of vertu.  He laughed.  But more I
should say might be somewhere within nine fathoms long.  And all from looking
should we longer cherish any social acerbities, or know the slightest
shrivelled
sick men; and throughout a care-free lifetime swears by Rabelais as passing
side, and getting into his boat, hailed the Guernsey-man to this effect,
side, lit by a dull lantern, a space has been left clear for the workmen.
side; and he then supported it by saying, that though the gentleman had
sides.  But had Stubb really abandoned the poor little negro to his fate?  No;
sight of it.  Flip?  Did I say we had flip?  Yes, and we flipped it at the
significance lurks in all things, else all things are little worth, and the
sinecure.  But not so.  Because the Lord Warden is busily employed at times
sir, who is the Lord Warden?  The Duke.  But the duke had nothing to do
six-barrel casks; and while, perhaps, the ship is pitching and rolling this
sixty cigars.  I wont smoke dirty pipes like Stubb, but I like cigars, and
skeleton dimensions I shall now proceed to set down are
skeleton of a Sperm Whale, but of moderate size, by no means of the
skull echoed --and seizing that lucky chance, I quickly concluded my own
skull, spout-hole, jaw, teeth, tail, forehead, fins, and divers other parts,
skulls, tusks, jaws, ribs, and vertebrae, all characterized by partial
sleep.  There's a sermon now, writ in high heaven, and the sun goes through
sleepers, and under-pinnings, making up the frame-work of leviathan; and
slices as possible, inasmuch as by so doing the business of boiling out the
sliding along beneath the surface as before; but, alas!  never more to rise
slightest suspicion concerning the ambergris.  He therefore held his peace on
slightly bowing to Ahab -- is apt to be facetious at times; he spins us many
slow and talked very fast, and seemed in anything but a good humor.  All
small are they.  I. A Fast-Fish belongs to the party fast to it.  II.  A
smallest, where the spine tapers away into the tail, is only two inches in
snuffing; this man's blood --bring the thermometer; --it's at the boiling
so near her and so long, as themselves to fall a prey.
so saying he started for the quarter-deck.  By this time the faint air had
so styled by the English law writers -- the whale and the sturgeon; both royal
so, Captain? --glancing at the ivory leg.  He is.  But he will still be
so, deprived of one leg, and the strange ship of course being altogether
so; he's beginning.  I see nothing here, but a round thing made of gold,
soapstone diligently circling round me, that I was first indirectly struck by
sober one; he was dressed in a faded blue woollen frock or shirt, and patched
soil the old oaken furniture, and drop at least one small grease-spot
solar, lunar, or astral contrivances ashore.  It is sweet as early grass
sold, and his Grace the Duke of Wellington received the money.  Thinking that
some fine specimens of fin-backs and other whales.  Likewise, I have heard
some illuminated shrine of canonized kings and counsellors.  There they lay in
some small degree be deemed, under the circumstances, a rather hard one, an
some time afterwards, when coming back to the Line, we heard about Moby Dick
somebody else.  He says, Monsieur, that he's very happy to have been of any
something worth a good deal more than oil; yes, ambergris.  I wonder now if
somewhere.  Yes; and many is the time, when, after the severest uninterrupted
soon as filled with the sperm; and when the proper time arrived, this same
soul.  Not drowned entirely, though.  Rather carried down alive to wondrous
sounded, we didn't see him again for some time; in fact, as I before hinted,
speak through it.  For even so it is in all material factories.  The spoken
speedy enterprise.  But now it's done, it looks much like Pompey's Pillar.
sperm of kindness.  Would that I could keep squeezing that sperm for ever!  For
sperm was carefully manipulated ere going to the try-works, of which anon.  It
sperm whale bone, terminating in a wooden head like a mallet.  Man my boat!
spine, all that had been once wrapped round with tons of added bulk in flesh,
spinning him out to the uttermost coil of his bowels.  Having already described
spire, forming solid courses of heavy masonry.  The largest, a middle one, is
spots of the deepest crimson and purple.  It is plums of rubies, in pictures
sprang from his luckless mishap, almost invariably irritated or exasperated
squeeze ourselves
starboard side, and thus come close to the blasted whale; and so talk over
statistical tables are parchingly dry in the reading; not so in the present
steady binnacle lamp illuminating it.  Nothing seemed before me but a jet
steel the great Sperm Whale; and that for half a century they were the only
stepped on board of any vessel at sea but his own, and then it was always by
stern.  Trumpet to mouth, the old man was standing in his hoisted
sterns on the outer gunwale.  Presently up breaches from the bottom of the sea
sticking in her.  Now in the present case Erskine contended that the examples
strange anomaly touching the general law of Fast and Loose-Fish, it is here
strange fact that of all things of ill-savor, Cologne-water, in its
strangely eyeing the particular object before him.  When he halted before the
stranger ship, and face set like a flint to his own, Ahab stood upright till
stranger.  But that did in nowise mend the matter, or at all soften the hard
stricken whale started on a fierce run, the line swiftly straightened; and
struck, killed, seized, and finally appropriated it before the very eyes of
subject.  for at that time, and indeed until a comparatively late day, the
subjects, contained a very interesting account of its whale fishery.  And in
substance which is scraped off the back of the Greenland or right whale, and
substance, and so important as an article of commerce, that in
subterranean parts of the whale?  Did erudite Stubb, mounted upon your
sun and the equatorial try-works; when, on the heel of all this, they have
sun hides not Virginia's Dismal Swamp, nor Rome's accursed Campagna, nor wide
sun seemed a flying shuttle weaving the unwearied verdure.  Oh, busy weaver!
superior's introduction of him to Ahab, he
supplies his own fuel and burns by his own body.  Would that he consumed his
supply the thoughts.  That's my small experience, so far as the Massachusetts
surgeon: Bunger, my lad, -- the captain).  Now, Bunger boy, spin your part
suspended breath.  And harpoons sticking in near his starboard fin.  Aye,
swallow jack-knives, once upon a time let one drop into him in good earnest,
swallowed.  If you stooped over too far forward, you risked their pitching
sweatings to be smoked and burned anew by the combined fires of the equatorial
symbol of possession; so long as the party waifing it plainly evince their
system.  Yes, Captain Boomer, if you are quick enough about it, and have a
tail?  A reason for that, ye lawyers!  In his treatise on Queen-Gold, or
taking one good dart forwards, went down like a flash; and the barb of that
tall, nigh a foot in diameter at the base, and jet-black as Yojo, the ebony
tattooing --looks like the signs of the Zodiac himself.  What says the
taught thee, a green simple boy, how to splice a rope!
telescope; There I saw him, on the Line, last season.  And he took that
tell him that now I have eyed him carefully, I'm quite certain that he's no
tendons --a wad of muscle --but still contains some oil.  After being severed
territories become by assignment his.  By some writers this office is called a
than forty feet in its fullest circumference, such a whale will weigh at
than kept alive by any other man.  My captain, you must have ere this
that --in fact, tell him I've diddled him, and (aside to himself) perhaps
that Stubb vowed he recognized his cutting spade-pole entangled in the lines
that a Prophet who prophesy'd of Mahomet, came from this Temple, and some do
that arising from excavating an old city grave-yard, for the foundations of
that blackness of darkness, seemed the material counterpart of her
that bundle of bones; though, now that I think of it, it may contain
that but a Fast-Fish?  What is the ruinous discount which Mordecai, the broker,
that drugged whale there, wouldn't be fit to burn in a jail; no, not in a
that fine gam I had --long, very long after old Ahab touched her planks with
that ghost-devil, Fedallah; tail coiled out of sight as usual, oakum in the
that head, but otherwise was quite frank and confidential with him, so that
that in the museum of Manchester, in New Hampshire, they have what the
that inexpressible sperm, I washed my hands and my heart of it; I almost
that is content with our leavings, the drugged whale there, I mean; aye, and
that is so killing wonderful?  By Golconda!  let me read it once.  Halloa!
that it is largely used in perfumery, in pastiles, precious candles,
that it is plainly traceable to the first arrival of the Greenland whaling
that it was the production of one Fitz Swackhammer.  But my friend Dr.
that of Holland.  It was decreed by the States-General in A. D.
that on either side of the Temple, there are Rocks that shoot two Miles into
that the Nantucketers were the first among mankind to harpoon with civilized
that upon breaking into the hold, and unloading one of these whale
that were knotted round the tail of one of these whales.  There's a pretty
that when fully invested and extended in life, he must have been ninety feet
that when we afterwards pulled on the line, bounce we came plump on to his
that with regard to the controverted whale, harpoons, and line, they belonged
that you, a mere oarsman in the fishery, pretend to know aught about the
the Base of the Temple.  In this Afric Temple of the Whale I leave you,
the Captain, without his at all dreaming of distrusting their sincerity.
the Crab, and drags us back; and here, going from Virtue, Leo, a roaring
the Enderbies, therefore, whose house, I think, exists to the present day;
the English Captain, to whom the question was put.  What's the matter?  He
the Frenchman's boats, then, were engaged in towing the ship one way, Stubb
the King of Hell.  But let us to the story.  It came to pass, that in the
the Sea, and wound the Whales when they light upon 'em.  They keep a Whale's
the Sperm Whale to for fragrance, considering his magnitude?  Must it not be
the United States.  Moreover, at a place in Yorkshire, England, Burton
the United States?  All Loose-Fish.  What are the Rights of Man and the
the White Whale? --how long ago?  The White Whale, said the Englishman,
the almanack and as I have heard devils can be raised with Daboll's
the bandages; and sending me to bed, half seas over, about three o'clock in
the battering-ram, Capricornus, or the Goat; full tilt, he comes rushing, and
the blubber of the dutch whale fleet to be tried out, without being taken
the boiling rage he seemed to be in.  And thinking the hap-hazard line would
the bulwarks, and then instantaneously drop it half way down to the kelson.
the completed ship.  it is as if from the open field a brick-kiln were
the contrasting barbaric brilliancy of their teeth, all these were strangely
the country; now that I have perceived all this, I am ready to squeeze case
the crown, I believe, all the royal emoluments incident to the Cinque Port
the day, had betaken himself to the Captain's round-house ( cabinet he
the days of Banks and Solander, Cooke's naturalists, we find a Danish member
the doubloon of the Pequod was a most wealthy example of these things.  On its
the effect, of the dyspepsia in the whale.  How to cure such a dyspepsia it
the entire ship seems great leviathan himself; while on all hands the din is
the entire ship's company, the whole of this conscientious duty is at last
the fact that the oil obtained from such subjects is of a very inferior
the first hint of the hitching tiller; believe not the artificial fire, when
the grand symbol and badge.  It frequently happens that when several ships are
the great South Sea of the other world.  The ship named after him was worthy
the heart of such decay; is this nothing?  Bethink thee of that saying of St.
the hold, where once again leviathan returns to his native profundities,
the hunt.  He hated Pip for a poltroon.  Snatching the boat-knife from its
the joints of his innermost bones, set him before you in his ultimatum; that
the largest is the Alabama one mentioned in the last chapter, and that was
the last pint is casked, and all is cool, then the great hatchways are
the law?  But if the doctrine of Fast-Fish be pretty generally applicable, the
the likeness of a
the middle ages affected to detect a Jew in the company, by the nose.  Nor
the mincer.  It enjoins him to be careful, and cut his work into as thin
the mischief with this masterly code is the
the morning.  Oh, ye stars!  he sat up with me indeed, and was very severe
the old women talk Surgeon's Astronomy in the back country.  And by Jove, he's
the open sea --mark how closely they hug their ship and only coast along her
the other day.  I thought they would keel up before long.  Presently, the
the other, why in that case the arm is yours; only let the whale have
the plaintiffs.  And when those defendants were remonstrated with, their
the present day superior in magnitude to those whose fossil remains are found
the remarkable fact, that in geometry all bodies gliding along the cycloid,
the ribs --and with a ball of Arsacidean twine, wandered, eddied long amid
the romantic name of this aromatic ship.  Though Stubb did not understand the
the sails, so that we hung there, reefed fast in the howling gale, a warning
the sea and the night, and scornfully champed the white bone in her mouth,
the seas of life; but in the course of years, repenting of that step, he
the seizure.  Wherefore the plaintiffs now sued for the recovery of the value
the ship there was a pitch of the boiling oil, which seemed all eagerness to
the sinews and souls of Russian serfs and Republican slaves
the skies will be bright; those who glared like devils in the forking flames,
the sloop-of-war Rattler on a whaling voyage of discovery into the South Sea.
the studious digesting of all this beer, beef, and bread, during which many
the sun is in the thigh, or in the calf, or in the bowels, I suppose, as
the sun then be?  The horse-shoe sign; for there it is, right opposite the
the surface by
the tail.  A division which, in the whale, is much like halving an apple;
the tiller, but with the crazy conceit that the tiller was, somehow,
the two officers of the strange ship, leaning over the side, by the
the two quickly concocted a little plan for both circumventing and satirizing
the vessel while the boats are pursuing the whale.  As a general thing, these
the vicinity took it for the bones of one of the fallen angels.  The Alabama
the whale was lost and Pip was saved.  So soon as he recovered himself, the
the white whale's talisman.  Sometimes they talked it over in the weary watch
the wind howled on, and the sea leaped, and the ship groaned and dived, and
the witty Erskine went on to illustrate his position, by alluding to a recent
the wonder-freighted, tribute-rendering waves had cast upon his shores.  Chief
thee.  There's another rendering now; but still one text.  All sorts of men
their clean frocks, are startled by the cry of There she blows!  and away
their coffins as a modern Kentuckian in his socks; and while the cattle and
their eyes sentimentally; as much as to say, --Oh!  my dear fellow beings, why
their fat fish high and dry, promising themselves a good 150 pounds from the
their final rest in the sea.  This done, the hatches are replaced, and
their heads all round;  meanwhile ruefully glancing from the whale to the
their hold full of boxes of tallow candles, and cases of snuffers,
their lives, obliged to forsake not only their lines, but their boat itself.
their noses upwardly projected from their faces like so many jib-booms.  Now
their oars.  In vain the English Captain hailed him.  With back to the
their proprietors upon similar grounds.  King Tranquo seizing his because he
their subject, though it may seem but an ordinary one.  How, then, with me,
their triangular oaken vaults, each mariner a chiselled muteness; a score of
them by the feet.  The smoke rolled away in sullen heaps.  To every pitch of
them that a one-legged man must be too much of a cripple to use their sea
them there, as mugs of ale at a vat.  He burns, too, the purest of oil, in
them, after long scratching about for his ideas, made bold to speak.  Please,
them, by pulling out the lighter whale of the two from the ship's side.  While
them, it (the fish) acquired a property in those articles; and hence anybody
them; a regular circus horse he was, too, that went milling and milling
themselves from top to toe; and finally issue to the immaculate deck, fresh
themselves sometimes consist in hard words and harder knocks --the
themselves with an essence found in the inglorious bowels of a sick whale!
then, and do not now, try out their oil at sea as the Southern ships have
then.  No fairy fingers can have pressed the gold, but devil's claws must
then?  But hereupon a fierce contest rose among them, concerning feet and
there at my ease, cross-legged on the deck; after the bitter exertion at the
there by Patagonia), and all hands --visitors and all --were called to reef
there is no intermediate remainder.  Now as this law, under a modified form,
there seems a reason in all things, even in law.
there swimming in that planisphere, centuries before Solomon was cradled.
there will tell you the rest (by the way, captain --Dr.  Bunger, ship's
there, at the three mast heads, stand three
there.  Poor devil!  I say, pass round a hat, some one, and let's make him a
therefore came off not altogether discreditably; though Stubb observing him,
therefore, I say, we have precisely two barrels of beer per man, for a
therefore, must have some special origin,
these dissertations, I have invariably used a huge quarto edition of Johnson,
these fragments to have belonged to some utterly unknown Leviathanic species.
these signs.  I've studied signs, and know their marks; they were taught me
these unceasingly were active.  Through the lacings of the leaves, the great
they are full of fight, fun, and wickedness, tumbling round the world at such
they do hills about Boston, to fill up some morass in the Milky Way.  Now
they fly to fight another whale, and go through the whole weary thing again.
thigh into the curve of the hook (it was like sitting in the fluke of an
thing occurred to me.  Starting from a brief standing sleep, I was horribly
thing you distantly allude to.  Away, and bring us napkins!  But mark: aloft
thing, he enjoys such high health; taking abundance of exercise; always out
things the more ingenious of his people could invent; chiefly carved woods of
think ye, that the Samuel Enderby, and some other English whalers I know of
thinkers but Loose-Fish?  What is the great globe itself but a Loose-Fish?
this apartment is a scene of terror to all tyros, especially by night.  On one
this chapter it was, headed Smeer, or Fat, that I found a long detailed
this din of the great world's loom, thy subtlest thinkings may be overheard
this dirty scrape.  Anything to oblige ye, my sweet and pleasant fellow,
this doubloon here, and they are all on fire to unscrew it.  But, unscrew
this doubloon was of purest, virgin gold, raked somewhere out of the heart of
this emprise under the weightiest words of the dictionary.  And here be it
this empties the decanter.
this is his first voyage; he was a Cologne manufacturer before.  But come
this latter duty, others were employed in dragging away the larger tubs, so
this our god!  That's for us.  Aye, priests --well, how long do ye make him,
this time he did not breast out the line; and hence, when the whale started
this turbulence though, and when about three fourths grown, break up, and
this vast ivory-ribbed chest, with the long, unrelieved spine, extending far
this wondrous whale, and saw the skull an altar, and the artificial smoke
those of its earlier ones.  Of all the pre-adamite whales yet exhumed, by far
those wondrous grey-headed, grizzled whales, sometimes met, and these will
though doubtless the original Samuel must long ago have slipped his cable for
though many there be who have tried it.  Ere entering upon the subject of
though no other nation has ever had any written whaling law, yet the American
though the savage salt spray bursting down the forecastle scuttle, rather too
thoughts were incidentally suggested to me, capable of a transcendental
thousand one hundred inhabitants.  Think you not then that brains, like yoked
thousands of years before even Pliny was born, do not measure so much in
through the bung holes of large casks, and carry it home in that manner; the
through the fire; --but now it remains to conclude the last chapter of this
throws him into the hydrophobia; but go on --go on with the arm story.  Yes,
thrust from behind the door, which was held ajar from within.  This was the
thrusting his shavings into the furnace throughout the passage.  Here be it
thus far had been impatiently listening to this bye-play between the two
timber.  The ribs were ten on a side.  The first, to begin from the neck, was
timbers.  On the flanks it is cased with wood, and at top completely covered
time I lived as in a musky meadow; I forgot all about our horrible oath; in
time.  Removing the fire-board from the front of the try-works, the bare
to Hell's flames, I was thinking; when, when, all of a sudden, thank the
to Stubb to desist, and come on board, else the ship would bid them good
to a clumsy landsman again; hopelessly eyeing the uncertain changeful height
to be newly attracted by the strange figures and inscriptions stamped on it,
to be the chief-mate.  Well, then, my Bouton-de-Rose-bud, have you seen the
to describe.  It is called slobgollion; an appellation original with the
to dry up and die with a sort of prodigious dyspepsia, or indigestion;
to each of their fleet of 180 sail, we have 5,400 Low Dutch seamen in all;
to exhort him to cherish his courageousness to the utmost, for he might often
to it.  But ploughed up to the primary rock of the matter, the two great
to lose whales by the likes of you; a whale would sell for thirty times what
to run, Pip was left behind on the sea, like a hurried traveller's trunk.
to shake in the wind; I thought my eyes were open; I was half conscious of
to show that the old Dutch whalers of two or three centuries ago were high
to take the boat's steering oar, and Ahab, swinging the cutting-tackle
to ten times the natural lustre with which in his native Tolland County in
to that famous elephant, with jewelled tusks, and redolent with myrrh, which
to the mincer.  They look much like blocks of Berkshire marble.  Plum-pudding
to which they are exposed, forbidding any other course.  The consequence is,
toes of his pumps as usual.  What does he say, with that look of his?  Ah,
tomb-stones, and break the green damp mould with unfathomably wondrous
too wide a margin to jump in for the future; Stubb suddenly dropped all
took care, afterwards,
topsails, we were so top-heavy that we had to swing each other aloft in
tormented surgeon, who, after in vain remonstrating against the proceedings of
touching Fast-Fish and Loose-Fish, I say, will, on reflection, be found the
towards him, commanded the ship's sailors to stand by to lower.  In a moment
tower on another; on the third a crowing cock; while arching over all was a
tower, cutting my boat in two, leaving each half in splinters; and, flukes
tows it alongside, without risk of life or line.  Thus the most vexatious and
tracery of sculpture, the Temple of the Law, like the Temple of the
translation, giving him a box of sperm candles for his trouble -- this same
transported to her planks.  The try-works are planted between the foremast and
transported up the Pupella glen, where a grand temple of lordly palms now
treated of in a separate chapter, on the same courteous principle that
treated, whales as a species are by no
treating of the Sperm Whale, I have chiefly dwelt upon the marvels of his
trowsers; and had thus far been dividing his attention between a marlingspike
truly, like the smell of spring violets; I declare to you, that for the
trumps --every soul on board.  A short life to them, and a jolly death.  And
try-works to the Pequod's forecastle, where the off duty watch were sleeping,
try-works were first started on this present voyage.  It belonged to Stubb to
try-works, you would all but swear you trod some silent merchant vessel,
twelve weeks' allowance, exclusive of his fair proportion of that 550 ankers
twenty-eight feet.  And this work was published so late as A. D.
two allies, heavily backs the grandissimus, as the mariners call it, and
two score years ago, by the old witch in Copenhagen.  Now, in what sign will
unaccountable drowsiness which ever would come over me at a midnight helm.
uncommon personal bulk more fitted him to compile a lexicon to be used by a
unctuous natures, being rendered still more unctuous by the nature of their
unctuous properties.  These fritters feed the flames.  Like a plethoric
undaunted, and victorious fowl, that, too, is Ahab; all are Ahab; and this
undetected villain's marble mansion with a door-plate for a waif; what is
unnatural hallucination of the night, and the fatal contingency of being
unsavory odor such a mass must exhale; worse than an Assyrian city in the
unsealed, the bowels of the ship are thrown open, and down go the casks to
unseen nooks; and when by the combined and simultaneous industry of almost
unseen weaver! --pause! --one word! -- whither flows the fabric?  what palace may
unspeakable terrors of the whale, which, having been before all time, must
unsupplied with the kindly invention, Ahab now found himself abjectly reduced
untidy business.  But there is another thing to rebut.  They hint that all
untravelled man to try to comprehend aright this wondrous whale, by merely
up steps a very learned and most Christian and charitable gentleman, with a
up the Andes, in the unwaning clime that knows no autumn.  Zoned by those
up, not by the sun, but by some unnatural gases.  Then come out those fiery
upon the Equator, in our southern fishery, beer would be apt to make the
upon them, for now, ex officio, every sailor is a cooper.  At length, when
uppermost in him during the interview.  By this time their destined victim
urchins, the priest's children, who had stolen them to play marbles with.
valuable sperm; and then, with weary patience, cleansed ourselves from its
valuable statistics.  But as I was crowded for space, and wished the other
value our lives, to cut loose from these fish.  Instantly the captain ran
vapors in advance slid aside; and there in the distance lay a ship, whose
vapory, mid-day sea, that the many noses on the Pequod's deck proved more
vast skeleton of an extinct monster, found in the year
very much astonished?  Toes are scarce among veteran blubber-room men.
very pleasant smell was smelt in the sea.  I will bet something now, said
very probably capsizing her.  How glad and how grateful the relief from this
very unctuous and savory withal.  You might easily dent it with your thumb;
vibrated over all the devotees, like the hair-hung sword that so affrighted
viewed in some particular lights, the case might by a bare possibility in
vigilant discoverers than the three pairs of eyes aloft.  A peculiar and not
vigorous Enderbys, boldly rounded Cape Horn, and was the first among the
violent disputes would often arise between the fishermen, were there not some
vocabulary.  But as applied by whalemen, it becomes so.  A whaleman's nipper
vocation, and especially by their pursuing their game in those frigid Polar
volcanoes; sun's disks and stars; ecliptics, horns-of-plenty, and rich
volume, which, by the musty whaling smell of it, I knew must be about
voyage was a skilful and lucky one; and returning to her berth with her hold
wake along the present lines of the Andes and the Himmalehs.  Who can show a
wanderings at that period, there was no other secure way of preserving such
want here?  roared the Guernsey-man, flying into a sudden passion.  Oh!
wanted it; and Sir Clifford, because he was lord of the seignories of those
warning.  Now, it is no very easy matter for anybody --except those who are
was as ugly gaping wound as surgeon ever saw; more than two feet and several
was carefully swung inside the high bulwarks, and gently landed upon the
was carelessly reclining in his own boat's bow.  He was a darkly-tanned,
was heading east, I think. --Is your Captain crazy?  whispering Fedallah.
was led out of an Indian town to do honor to Alexander the Great?
was now so far away, and he and all his crew so intent upon his fish, that
was our business to squeeze these lumps back into fluid.  A sweet and unctuous
was the first time in my life that I ever cruised on the Line, began the
was the mighty circular basket of ribs which once enclosed his vitals.  To me
was there ever such another Bunger in the watery world?  Bunger, when you
was, Never jump from a boat, Pip, except --but all the rest was indefinite,
watch and seals, you may as well begin by telling him that he looks a sort
waters heaved the colossal orbs.  He saw God's foot upon the treadle of the
way and that in the midnight sea, the enormous casks are slewed round and
way of doxology to the deed he had done, he would now retain their line,
we can consider it is, with a crane, to pile its bones high up on end.  No
we lowered for a pod of four or five whales, and my boat fastened to one of
we mortals by long toilings extracted from the world's vast bulk its small but
we suddenly jump, as Scorpio, or the Scorpion, stings us in rear; we are
weather there on the Line.  But it was no use --I did all I could; sat up with
weather, to swim in the open ocean is as easy to the practised swimmer as to
were hard to say, unless by administering three or four boat loads of
were nothing more than pieces of small squid bones embalmed in that manner.
were obtained; but more was unavoidably lost in the sea, and still more,
were still smaller ones, but they had been lost by some little cannibal
whale author like me.  One often hears of writers that rise and swell with
whale be truly and livingly found out.  But the spine.  For that, the best way
whale must have been at least sixteen feet; whereas, the corresponding rib
whale ship must carry its cooper.  I was reinforced in this opinion by seeing
whale which they had originally descried afar off from the shore.  Now the
whale, in his own osseous post-diluvian reality, as set down by the venerable
whale, though of a departed species.
whale.  Whereupon Stubb quickly pulled to the floating body,
whale; and as the fish received the darted iron, it gave its customary rap,
whaleman (more than he was), will make bold to tell him so.  Because I
whalemen allowances are always made for peculiar cases, where it would be an
whalemen, and even so is the nature of the substance.  It is an ineffably
whaler is outwardly distinguished by her try-works.  She presents the curious
whalers may be likewise imputed to the existence on the coast of Greenland,
whalers.  The title was, Dan Coopman, wherefore I concluded that this must
whales always smell bad.  Now how did this odious stigma originate?  I opine,
whales close to them on one side, turned, and gave chase; and Stubb's boat
whales to the ship.  What now?  said the Guernsey-man, when the captain had
whales to which these two skeletons belonged, were originally claimed by
whales, for it's so calm they won't drift.  By this time Stubb was over the
whaling scene recounted, and when we were slowly sailing over a sleepy,
whaling-pike is similar to a frigate's boarding-weapon of the same name.  The
what are you holding yours for?  Oh, nothing!  It's a wax nose; I have to
what our sailors called Bamboo-Town, his capital.  Among many other fine
what's all this staring been about?  It is worth sixteen dollars, that's true;
what's that he says now -- hist!  I look, you look, he looks; we look, ye
wheels among 'em.  Aye, here on the coin he's just crossing the threshold
when resuming his walk he again paused before the mainmast, then, as the same
which ever enjoy all holidays and festivities with finer, freer relish than
which happened, in this instance, to be right under poor Pip's seat.  The
which is conducted at a curious wooden horse, planted endwise against the
which is here pointed out, and will be still further elucidated.  During my
which latter name is the one used by the learned Fogo Von Slack, in his great
which leaned against it; in my ears was the low hum of sails, just beginning
while I write that this little black was brilliant, for even blackness has
while you're working at 'em?  But joking aside, though; do you know,
white one, of equal developments, though of dissimilar color, driven in one
white-horse, so called, which is obtained from the tapering part of the fish,
who afterwards took the fish had a right to them.  Now the defendants
who had just got into the chains, and was using a cutting-spade, had slung his
whole deluge and drowns us; and to wind up with Pisces, or the Fishes, we
whole mile of shoreless ocean was between Pip and Stubb.  Out from the centre
whose antiquity seems to claim for them an almost fossiliferous character, we
wick into; aye, we all know these things; but look ye, here's a Crappo
width, and looks something like a white billiard-ball.  I was told that there
wife's viciousness, had at last abandoned her upon
wild, Hindoo odor about it, such as may lurk in the vicinity of funereal
will any whaleman believe these stories?  No.  The whale of to-day is as big
windlass, hold up a specimen rib for exhibition?  Explain thyself, Ishmael.
windlass; under a blue tranquil sky; the ship under indolent sail, and
wise, and therefore jolly; --not that man is fitted to sit down on
wiseish look to it.  But, avast; here comes our old Manxman --the old
with Arsacidean annals, in strange hieroglyphics; in the skull, the priests
with a most scrupulously neat commander.  The unmanufactured sperm oil
with a quarter or a half?  It is his.  In a word, the whale was seized and
with a tail?  An allegorical meaning may lurk here.  There are two royal fish
with bowed shoulders, staggers off with it as if he were a grenadier carrying
with elated step, they pace the planks in twos and threes, and humorously
with him, said the interpreter.  Thank him heartily; but tell him it's
with man.  Here Saturn's grey chaos rolls over me, and I obtain dim, shuddering
with savages, and laden with fire, and burning a corpse, and plunging into
with soapstone and sand, till they shine within like silver punch-bowls.
with taking this fish?  It is his.  We have been at great trouble, and
with that pleasant, genial, jolly brightness peculiar to his tribe; a tribe,
with that unearthly idiot face.  stand away again and hear him.  hark!  I
with the expiring breeze, we saw that the Frenchman had a second whale
with the fanciful French taste, the upper part of her stem-piece was carved in
with their trowsers rolled high up on their eely legs, had wearily hauled
with ye whalebone.  Now this was written at a time when the black limber bone
withdrawing it from the fold that had hidden it, he held up a white arm of
wonders!  There's a clue somewhere; wait a bit; hist--hark!  By Jove, I have
wonders, eh?  Pity if there is nothing wonderful in signs, and significant in
wondrous period, ere time itself can be said to have begun; for time began
wondrously thin, ruptured membranes of the case, coalescing.  Gurry, so
wont to pace his quarter-deck, taking regular turns at either limit, the
words of mirth; as their uncivilized laughter forked upwards out of them,
words that are inaudible among the flying spindles; those same words are
work on Smells, a textbook on that subject.  As its name imports (smeer, fat;
world's circumference, not an inhabitable hand's breadth of land was visible.
worn-out coffee-mill.  Prick ears, and listen!  If the White Whale be
would think, then, that such fine ladies and gentlemen should regale
wrinkles.  It was he, it was he!  cried Ahab, suddenly letting out his
writing of this Leviathan?  Unconsciously my chirography expands into placard
written or unwritten, universal, undisputed law applicable to all cases.
years previous (ever since
yesterday his ship spoke a vessel, whose captain and chief-mate, with six
yet abandon her he did, so that she became a loose-fish; and therefore when
yet man is a money-making animal, which propensity too often interferes with
you how that came here; he knows.  No, I don't, said the captain, but
you know, gentlemen, that the digestive organs of the whale are so
you look, he looks; we look, ye look, they look.  Well, that's funny.
you would, Pip, in Alabama.  Bear that in mind, and don't jump any more.
you, sir --hearts and souls alive, man --the next instant, in a jiff, I was
your doubloons of Chili, your doubloons of Bolivia, your doubloons of
your navel, and what's the consequence?  Then again, if it stays here, that
your true motto in whaling; but cases will sometimes happen when Leap
