














































     ( As told at the Golden Inn.)
     And as for Pirates, when they chance to cross each other's cross-bones, the
     Barrens and Salisbury Plains of the sea, two whaling vessels descrying each
     But sliding down the ropes like baleful comets, the two Canallers rushed into
     But to this their leader as fiercely objected, reserving that priority for
     Days, weeks passed, and under easy
     During the night, Radney had an unseamanlike way of sitting on the
     For three hundred and sixty miles, gentlemen, through the entire breadth of
     Nevertheless, this same expressive word has now for many years been in
     On the fourth day of the sail, a large canoe was descried, which seemed to
     Radney, pretending not to have heard the sailors' talk.  "Thunder away at it!"
     South-eastward from the Cape, off the
     The Cape of Good Hope, and all the watery region round about there, is much
     The ostensible reason why Ahab did not go on
     This latter circumstance, with its own particular accompaniments, forming
     and discover sights more sweet and strange than any Cyclades or Islands of
     and every stunsail spread.  The best man in the ship must take the helm.
     and let us hear what he can say for himself."  For a moment the exhausted
     and such like pretty exclamations.  Why it is that all Merchant-seamen, and
     and we're your men; but we won't be flogged." "Turn to!  I make no
     and with curses, the appalling beauty of the vast milky mass, that lit up by
     business of heaving down the ship to stop the leak.  But to such unresting
     but it was to no purpose.  And in this way the two went once slowly round the
     complete boat's crew must leave the ship, and hence as the boat steerer or
     fears of ultimate retribution, had constrained them to surrender at
     for leagues and leagues are flanked by ancient and unentered forests, where
     for what was thought to be one of the spare boats, and even solicitously
     friends, one saint's eve, smoking upon the thick-gilt tiled piazza of the
     hereabouts in this dull, warm, most lazy, and hereditary land, we know but
     insulated, immemorial, unalterable countries, which even in these modern
     man walked.  But though the ship so swiftly sped, and though from every eye,
     milliner's tiller decorated with gay cords and ribbons.  But the whale-boat
     run a muck from the bowsprit to the taffrail; and if by any devilishness of
     sense of peculiar dread at this flitting apparition, as if it were
     ship she now meets.  Besides, they would exchange the whaling news, and have
     the Town-Ho had all but certainly arrived in perfect safety at her port
     the forecastle.  In a few minutes the scuttle was opened, and, bound hand
     they swore they were ready for that, or for any other mad thing, for
     though in after life he had long followed our austere Atlantic and your
     tightly clenched hand.  Though the body was erect, the head was thrown back
     told his persecutor that if the hammer but grazed his cheek he (Steelkilt)
     upon resuming the head of his watch at night.  Upon this, and one or two
     wax, day after day tore on through all the swift madness and gladness of the
     with truly nautical duties, such being the case with his comrades.  I mention
     you pour out again."  Freely depicted in his own vocation, gentlemen, the
 "A pretty scholar," laughed the Lakeman."Adios, Senor!" and leaping into the
 "Aye, aye, my merry lads, it's a lively leak this; hold a cannikin, one of
 "Aye, aye, sir," said Steelkilt, merry as a cricket.  "Lively, boys, lively,
 "Like a lanyard for your bag; but it's an odd one, seems to me." "Yes,
 "Oh!  certainly," said the Captain and the key clicked.  It was at this
 "Turn to!  turn to! --I make no promise; --to your duty!  Do you want to sink
 "Well for our northern friend, Dame Isabella's Inquisition wanes in Lima,"
 "You are a coward!" hissed the Lakeman.  "So I am, but take that."  The mate
"We have seen many whale-ships in our harbors, but never heard of your
"but I think it will answer.  Shipmate, I haven't enough twine, --have you
-- Corrupt as Lima.  It but bears out your saying, too; churches more
--Buffalo!  Pray, what is a Lakeman, and where is Buffalo?" said Don
--justice demanded it; but for the present, considering their timely
--neither twine nor lanyard were seen again; but the next night an iron ball,
.. < chapter li 16  THE SPIRIT-SPOUT >
.. < chapter lii 13  THE ALBATROSS >
.. < chapter liii 17  THE GAM >
.. < chapter liv 26  THE TOWN-HO'S STORY >
.. <p 229 >
.. <p 230 >
.. <p 230 >
.. <p 231 >
.. <p 232 >
.. <p 233 >
.. <p 234 >
.. <p 234 >
.. <p 234n. >
.. <p 235 >
.. <p 236 >
.. <p 236 >
.. <p 237 >
.. <p 238 >
.. <p 239 >
.. <p 240 >
.. <p 240 >
.. <p 241 >
.. <p 242 >
.. <p 243 >
.. <p 244 >
.. <p 245 >
.. <p 246 >
.. <p 247 >
.. <p 248 >
.. <p 249 >
.. <p 250 >
.. <p 251 >
.. <p 252 >
.. <p 253 >
.. <p 254 >
.. <p 255 >
.. <p 256 >
.. <p 257 >
.. <p 258 >
.. <p 259 >
And in return for that courtesy, the outward-bound ship would receive the
And often you will notice that being conscious of the eyes of the whole
And yet, though herds of whales were seen by night, not one whaleman
At that moment the two wakes were fairly crossed, and instantly, then, in
Because, in the case of pirates, say, I should like to know whether that
But a sudden, terrific, downward jerking of the boat, quickly brought his
But all this might remain inadequately estimated, were not something said
But where this superiority in the English whalemen does really consist, it
Canaller would make a fine dramatic hero, so abundantly and picturesquely
Canallers are; for such information may throw side-light upon my story."
Canallers, thus far apparently of one mind with him, to burst out of their
Canallers.  Pardon: who and what are they?" "Canallers, Don, are the boatmen
Captain with a heartless jeer.  "Shut us up again, will ye!" cried Steelkilt.
Captain; who, to the amazement of all hands, started back, paced the deck
Christian corn-field, and recklessly ploughing the waters of the most barbaric
Cleopatra, ripening his apricot thigh upon the sunny deck.  But ashore, all
Close to our bows, strange forms in the water darted hither and thither before
Dons --nay, nay!  I cannot rehearse that now.  Let me get more into the air,
Fearing in his heart lest this might prove but too true, the captain a little
Golden Inn.  Of those fine cavaliers, the young Dons, Pedro and Sebastian,
Goney that another
Grand Canal furnishes the sole transition between quietly reaping in a
He paused: and then pausing no more, made good his word, spite of Steelkilt's
Heaven itself seemed to step in to take out of his hands into its own the
High times indeed, if whaling captains were wheeled about the water on castors
I proceed. --Now, gentlemen, so suddenly perceiving the snowy whale within
Intolerably striding along the deck, the mate commanded him to get a broom
Islanders not to approach the ship at their peril, took one man with him, and
Johnson never attained to that erudition; Noah Webster's ark does not hold it.
King Solomon, then there were promise in the voyage.  But in pursuit of those
King's Mills; how much more natural, I say, that under such circumstances
Lake Erie, Don; but--I crave your courtesy--may be, you shall soon hear further
Nantucketer, with his nondescript provincialisms, as a sort of sea-peasant.
Nevertheless, so potent an influence did this thing have on those seamen in
Only her lower sails were set.  A wild sight it was to see her long-bearded
Ontario, and Huron, and Superior, and Michigan, --possess an ocean-like
Others of the sailors joined with them in this attempt, and a twisted turmoil
Pedro, looking downwards into the crowded plazza, with humorous concern.
Pirates and Man-of-War's men, and Slave-ship sailors, cherish such a scornful
Plain in England; if
Rad were here now, I'd tell him to jump overboard and scatter 'em.  They're
Rad;" and he rose to go aft.  "You don't mean to go a begging to him!" said
Radney had spat in his face.  Any man who has gone sailor in a whale-ship will
Sebastian, rising in his swinging mat of grass.  On the eastern shore of our
Sirs." "The chicha!  the chicha!" cried Don Pedro; "our vigorous friend
So, too, Venice; I have been there; the holy city of the blessed evangelist,
So, with his ivory leg inserted into its accustomed hole, and with one hand
St.  Mark! --St.  Dominic, purge it!  Your cup!  Thanks: here I refill;  now,
Starbuck forget the old man's aspect, when one night going down into the cabin
Steelkilt --but, gentlemen, you shall hear.  It was not more than a day or two
Steelkilt and his desperadoes were too much for them all; they succeeded in
Steelkilt calculated his time, and found that his next trick at the helm
Steelkilt had been regularly assigned captain of one of the gangs;
Steelkilt; "no lies." "I am bound to Tahiti for more men." "Very good.  Let
Sydney men, are so much distrusted by our whaling captains.  Nor does it at
Tahiti, five hundred miles distant, to procure a reinforcement to his crew.
The cabin-compass is called the tell-tale, because without going to the
The fetid closeness of the air, and a famishing diet, united perhaps to some
The mutineer was the bowsman of the mate, and when fast to a fish, it was
Then, with every mast-head manned, the piled-up craft rolled down before the
Therefore he had not solicited a boat's crew from them, nor had he in any way
These temporary apprehensions, so vague but so awful, derived a wondrous
Though, to be sure, from the small number of English whalers, such meetings
Town-Ho's leak seemed again increasing, but only so as to require an hour or
Whale-ships, generally on a cruising-ground; when, after exchanging hails,
Whaler of Nantucket, was cruising in your Pacific here, not very many days'
What say ye, men?" turning to his comrades.  A fierce cheer was their
Whence he came in a mannerly world like this, by what sort of unaccountable
With one foot on each prow of the yoked war-canoes, the Lakeman laughed him
a horizontal spangling sun, shifted and glistened like a living opal in the
a man of us turns to, unless you swear not to raise a rope-yarn against us.
a negative answer to the question he put.  For, as it eventually turned out,
a pale man, with a bandaged head, arrested them --Radney the chief mate.  Ever
a phrensy.  "The White Whale --the White Whale!" was the cry from captain,
a sailor.  "Why not?  Do you think he won't do me a turn, when it's to help
a story." "How?  how!" cried all the young Spaniards, crowding.  "Nay, Dons,
a stupid Teneriffe man, drawing water in the main-chains, all at once
a tyro in the far ocean fisheries --a whaler at sea, and long absent from
a year or two later than the last one on her blurred and thumb-worn files.
about the open sea on planks, bits of wreck, oars, whale-boats, canoes,
about the safety of the ship, some of the seamen declared that it was only on
about.  For the long absent ship, the outward-bounder, perhaps, has letters
accessible coast, or if any other reasonable retreat is afforded them.  It is
accordance with their singular ways, shoals of small harmless fish, that for
account of his being a part owner in her.  So when they were working that
addressed his mates.  In tempestuous times like these, after everything above
administered in the vernacular.  "But as for you, ye carrion rogues," turning
advancing still further and further in our van, this solitary jet seemed for
advantage of his windward position, he again seized his trumpet, and knowing
affected not to notice him, but unawed, went on with his gay banterings.
after it; when again turning the key upon them and pocketing it, the Captain
after spending his uniform interval there for several successive nights
after, his trick at the silent helm --nigh to the man who was apt to doze over
again; but the whale eluded them, and finally wholly disappeared.  In good
against the leaping waves, each man had slipped himself into a sort of
against ye unless ye attack us; but till you say the word about not flogging
ahead, the Goney (Albatross) by name.  As she slowly drew nigh, from my lofty
ahoy!  Have ye seen the White Whale?  But as the strange captain, leaning over
ain't those mincing knives down in the forecastle there, men?  look to those
air beneath the feet; while still she rushed along, as if two antagonistic
alike the full-rigged merchant ship, the armed cruiser of the State, the
all diminish the curiousness of this matter, that to many thousands of our
all hands were turned to, and, sullenly worked by the moody seamen, the iron
all space, in repugnance to our vengeful errand, seemed vacating itself of
all these particulars so that you may understand exactly how this affair stood
all; but upon making sail to overtake it, once more it disappeared as if it
also all
an agreeable chat.  For not only would they meet with all the sympathies of
an indifferent air concerning Fedallah.  He was such a creature as civilized,
anchored the ship as far off shore as possible; loaded and ran out his two
and aft, especially about the forecastle scuttle and fore hatchway; at which
and all men his descendants, unknowing whence he came, eyed each other as
and all the time indulging, perhaps, in finical criticism upon each other's
and aloft has been secured, nothing more can be done but passively to await
and ash-holes of the earth to man these floating outlaws of whalers; and the
and betake himself where he belonged.  On the fifth morning three others of
and bound the sleeper with cords, and gagged him with cords; and shrieked
and by the goat-like craggy guns of lofty Mackinaw; they have heard the fleet
and coat.  On the table beside him lay unrolled one of those charts of tides
and currents which have previously been spoken of.  His lantern swung from his
and days we voyaged along, through seas so wearily, lonesomely mild, that
and famous, and most deadly immortal monster, Don; --but that would be too long
and foot, the still struggling ringleader was shoved up into the air by his
and savage seas far from you to the westward, gentlemen, is it altogether
and stand a look-out there, with the same precision as if it had been day.
and sweep down the planks, and also a shovel, and remove some offensive
and then, without at all alluding to the shovel, he pointed to three lads as
and though, when the ship slowly glided close under our stern, we six men in
another little item about Gamming which must not be forgotten here.  All
anxious.  Much this way had it been with the Town-Ho; so when her leak was
any already ireful being --a repugnance most felt, when felt at all, by
any?"  But there was none in the forecastle.  "Then I must get some from old
anything in short but a surrender.  And what was more, they each insisted
anywhere in his boat, he always sits in the stern sheets on a comfortable,
as direful as any that lash the salted wave; they know what shipwrecks are,
as he was by his spasmodic toil at the pumps, for all his first nameless
as he was tucking the coat into his hammock for a pillow.  Twenty-four hours
as malicious.  He did not love Steelkilt, and Steelkilt knew it.  Espying the
as publicly narrated on the ship, the whole of this strange affair I now
as ready to change his berth for a boat, and with his bandaged mouth seek to
astern from the whirlpool; calmly looking on, he thought his own thoughts.
at the furthest after pointing her prow for her island haven, that the
at the same silent hour, it was again announced: again it was descried by
attitude, it was well known, he sometimes dozed.  There was a considerable
authenticated ones too, where the captain has been known for an uncommonly
away; for in a whaler wonders soon wane.  Besides, now and then such
band of whites necessitated, both by night and by day, and so extreme was the
barometer stood, he saw him with closed eyes sitting straight in his
barrels?  And that question once answered, pirates straightway steer apart,
barricade, and striding up and down there, defied the worst the pistols could
be done in the case of ships actually foundering at the time.  Such,
beasts, so torn and bepatched the raiment that had survived nearly four years
been nurtured by all those agrarian
before them, "the vultures would not touch ye, ye villains!"  At sunrise he
behind the barricade.  "come out of that, ye pirates!" roared the captain,
being off the mouth of the Rio de la Plata; and the Carrol Ground, an
belonging to our grand Erie Canal.  You must have heard of it." "Nay, Senor;
below, a clamor was heard in the forecastle; and the two trembling traitors
between the two men.  But there was more than this: the order about the
blinding foam that blent two whitenesses together; till of a sudden the boat
blood like a whale.  Ere the cry could go aft Steelkilt was shaking one of
bloodshot, and wiping the profuse sweat from his brow.  Now what cozening
blown-off Japanese junks, and what not; that Beelzebub himself might climb up
blue morning sea.  Gentlemen, a strange fatality pervades the whole career of
board of the whaler we had spoken was this: the wind and sea betokened
board the stranger, had not the threatening wind forbade.  But taking
boat which was hoisted up there, a little above the ship's side.  In this
boat.  now, with the subordinate phantoms, what wonder remained soon waned
both parties speak one language, as is the case with Americans and English.
bowline secured to the rail, in which he swung as in a loosened belt.  Few or
boy's business; he might have known me before this; I told him not to prick
braiding something very carefully in his watches below.  "What are you making
bred.  Cape of Good Hope, do they call ye?  Rather Cape Tormentoto, as called
brotherly love about it at all.  As touching Slave-ships meeting, why, they are
bubbling from
bulwarks of the quarter-deck, and leaning his arm upon the gunwale of the
buoyant self-command, he generally carries his hands in his trowsers'
but do whales have christenings?  Whom call you Moby Dick?" "A very white,
but himself.  Besides, the English whalers sometimes affect a kind of
but raging gales is regularly attended to every evening; it has been known to
but to wonder at it.  Mysteriously jetted into the clear moonlight,
by her aspect that the stranger vessel was a Nantucketer and shortly bound
by the gods.  Immediately the hammer touched the cheek; the next instant the
by two great contrasting nations, as the Atlantic is; they furnish long
called for the steward to bring the heavy brass padlock, belonging to the
cannon from the bows; stacked his muskets on the poop; and warning the
cannot sustain
capitals of Buffalo and Cleveland, as well as Winnebago villages; they float
captain is all alive to the importance of sustaining his dignity by
captain, having some unusual reason for believing that rare good luck awaited
captain.  "Cross your arms, sir; throw back your head.  Now, repeat after
captain.  "Where are you bound?  and for what are you bound?" demanded
captains, officers, and not a few of the men are personally known to each
casks in a line with the windlass, these sea-Parisians entrenched themselves
casually encountering each other in such inhospitable wilds, these twain, for
catching hold of anything with his hands; indeed, as token of his entire,
chicha upon his silvery ruffles.  "No need to travel!  The world's one Lima.  I
chicha's very fine; and ere proceeding further I will tell ye what our
circumstances is it wise for any maimed man to enter a whale-boat in the
civilized creature resided.  There, headed by the Lakeman, all but five or
claim our discharge as soon as the anchor is down; so we don't want a row;
clanking at intervals through the dreary night dismally resounded through the
close up to the revolving border of the confusion, and prying into the heart
closely netted, partly rolled from the pocket of the Lakeman's monkey jacket,
club hammer which he had snatched from a cask near by.  Heated and irritated
collared, and dragged along the deck like dead cattle; and, side by side,
come; and in
coming still closer to him, where the Lakeman stood fixed, now shook the
commanding him to do his bidding.  Steelkilt rose, and slowly retreating
common pursuit and mutually shared privations and perils.  Nor would
common.  They supposed a sword-fish had stabbed her, gentlemen.  But the
communities, especially the Oriental isles to the east of the continent --those
companion-way.  Then opening the slide a little, the Captain whispered
compass at the helm, the Captain, while below, can inform himself of the
comprehended when the mate uttered his command.  But as he sat still for a
conceives an unconquerable dislike and bitterness; and if he have a chance
consequently he should have been freed from any trivial business not connected
constant use among some fifteen thousand true born Yankees.  Certainly it
contemplative Pacific; yet was he quite as vengeful and full of social
continual stream of Venetianly corrupt and often lawless life.  There's your
contrasting scenery of those noble Mohawk counties; and especially, by rows of
conveniently imagine, gentlemen.  Therefore when he betrayed this solicitude
conventional world of ours --watery or otherwise; that when a person placed
could not find it after searching the hold as low down as was possible in
course of the ship.
crew.  Entreaties, cuffs, and kicks could not drive them back, so at their
cried the ringleader to his men.  Most of them were against it; but at
critical moment or two, in a sudden squall say --to seize hold of the nearest
crossing the Pine Barrens in New York State, or the equally desolate Salisbury
cruising-ground itself, even though they are equally long absent from home.
cutting and slashing at the bottom; making improvements, I suppose.  If old
cutting each other on the high seas, like a brace of dandies in Broadway;
cutting the small wooden skewers, which when the
daily usage, it was observed that she made more water in her hold than
damning thing he would have done.  It was just between daybreak and sunrise of
dangerous deck, manifested the gloomiest reserve; and more seldom than ever
dared not attempt, he snatched the rope and advanced to his pinioned foe.
darting or stabbing at the whale; when it was observed how often he stood up
day his craft first struck the cruising ground; and Radney the mate was quite
days still preserve much of the ghostly aboriginalness of earth's primal
days went by, and not only was the leak yet undiscovered, but it sensibly
death would be the signal for a murderous mutiny on the part of all hands.
deemed our ship some drifting, uninhabited craft; a thing appointed to
deliberately repeated his intention not to obey.  Seeing, however, that his
delicacy, to call it so, were they governed in this matter, that they kept
demanding repose he would not seek that repose in his hammock.  Never could
demoniac waves.  By night the same muteness of humanity before the shrieks of
den, growlingly disappearing, like bears into a cave.  As the Lakeman's bare
desisted, but still commanded the insurgents instantly to return to their
desolation, and therefore fit roosting-place for their homeless selves.  And
desperation possible, seize the ship.  For himself, he would do this, he said,
destined, a thing of the utmost importance to her.  And in degree, all this
difference of country make any very essential difference; that is, so long as
dimly; but the like of whom now and then glide among the unchanging Asiatic
discretion.  Emboldened by this, the Captain reiterated his demand to the
distance, Moby Dick rose again, with some tatters of Radney's red woollen
distant Crozetts, a good cruising ground for Right Whalemen, a sail loomed
do not bow and look surprised; you know the proverb all along this coast
do not very often occur, and when they do occur there is too apt to be a
do; but gave the captain to understand distinctly, that his (Steelkilt's)
does not take much to heart; probably, because he knows that he has a few
domestic people in the temperate zone only see in their dreams, and that but
domineering and outrageous manner unconditionally reiterating his command;
don't be a fool; forget it all; we are ready to turn to; treat us decently,
dotted all round their banks; here and there are frowned upon by batteries,
down with a whale-pike, calling upon his officers to manhandle that atrocious
duty.  "Will you promise not to touch us, if we do?" demanded their
emotions, then, the seamen beheld this old Oriental perched aloft at such
emphatically evinced by this; that our wild whale-fishery contains so many of
endless plain, and by sailing eastward we could for ever reach new distances,
ensigns, that there does not seem to be much right-down hearty good-will and
ensued; while standing out of harm's way, the valiant captain danced up and
evening at the pumps, there was on this head no small gamesomeness slily
events Steelkilt was a tall and noble animal with a head like a Roman, and a
events, he had proved so thus far; but Radney was doomed and made mad, and
ever alluring us on.  Nor with the immemorial superstition of their race, and
everlastingly without any haven in store, or beat that black air without any
exactly shaping the thigh board, or clumsy cleat, as it is sometimes called,
except he could contribute some of that information he so absorbingly sought.
excitement of the moment, the Teneriffe man had instinctively and
expansiveness, with many of the ocean's noblest traits; with many of its
far apart latitudes and longitudes, that unnearable spout was cast by one
far manilla; this lakeman, in the land-locked heart of our America, had yet
far mysteries we dream of, or in tormented chase of that demon phantom that,
father.  But Radney, the mate, was ugly as a mule; yet as hardy, as stubborn,
feathers to the sky; still beckoning us on from before, the solitary jet
feeling of forbearance the sweating Steelkilt could but ill brook this bearing
feeling towards Whale-ships; this is a question it would be hard to answer.
fields, unrivalled for fertility; by billiard-room and bar-room; through
fiend it was, gentlemen, that possessed Radney to meddle with such a man in
fifty yards of the ship --forgetful of the compact among the crew --in the
file-fish, and what not; and the whole posse of 'em are now hard at work
firmly grasping a shroud, Ahab for hours and hours would stand gazing dead to
first hail is -- How many skulls? --the same way that whalers hail-- How many
first mere mention of the White Whale's name to another ship, Ahab for a
fishermen, mildly eyeing us as they passed, said not one word to our own
fishery.  In a pirate, man-of-war, or slave ship, when the captain is rowed
flog them all round --thought, upon the whole, he would do so --he ought to
floor-screwed chair; the rain and half-melted sleet of the storm from which
flowery Nile, he indolently floats, openly toying with his red-cheeked
flowing golden beard like the tasseled housings of your last viceroy's
foibles himself.  So, then, we see that of all ships separately sailing the
for a voyage of considerable length; that is, if it lie along a tolerably
for one of them may have received a transfer of letters from some third, and
for out of sight of land, however inland, they have drowned full many a
for they are infernal villains on both sides, and don't like to see overmuch
for you, my fine bantam, that wouldn't give up.  Take that gag from his mouth,
forbearance had not the slightest effect, by an awful and unspeakable
foreign seas, and especially on a common cruising-ground.  If two strangers
found bestirring himself in the matter of making thole-pins with his own hands
found gaining once more, there was in truth some small concern manifested by
founder by the way, because his pumps were of the best, and being
four men burst up from the forecastle, saying they were ready to turn to.
freebooting impressions popularly connected with the open ocean.  For in their
frighten me" --and the Captain drew off with the rope to strike.  "Best not,"
gag in death the vital jaw of the whale.  But though the Lakeman had induced
gaining the forecastle deck, where, hastily slewing about three or four large
generations, when the memory of the first man was a distinct recollection,
gentlemen, is the inflexibility of sea-usages and the instinctive love of
gentlemen, stole over Steelkilt.  Therefore, in his ordinary tone, only a
gentlemen, the Town-Ho, Sperm
glittering god uprising from the sea.  Fedallah first descried this jet.  For
going on among them, as they stood with their feet continually overflowed by
grin at it, and repeat gamesome stuff about spouters and blubber-boilers,
had been holding the ship in the wind to diminish
had never been.  And so it served us night after night, till no one heeded it
had thought, now, that at your temperate North the generations were cold and
handful, the captain called upon the Islanders to assist him in the laborious
handled Bowie-knives.  Yet was this Nantucketer a man with some good-hearted
handspikes, my hearties.  Captain, by God, look to yourself; say the word;
hard work they underwent, that upon the vessel being ready again for sea,
harmless little foible in the English whale-hunters, which the Nantucketer
harpooneer is of the number, that subordinate is the steersman upon the
has a Gam, a thing so utterly unknown to all other ships that they never
has no seat astern, no sofa of that sort whatever, and no tiller at all.
have laid him down on the lone Nantucket beach, to nurse at his maternal sea;
have shipped for the cruise, d'ye see; now as you well know, sir, we can
have touched at a low isle of corals.  He steered away from it; but the
he cared not to consort, even for five minutes, with any stranger captain,
he had now forborne as much as comported with his humor, the Lakeman paused
he had some time before emerged, still slowly dripping from the unremoved hat
he will pull down and pulverize that subaltern's tower, and make a little
head was just level with the planks,
heads sideways, as the two crucified thieves are drawn.  "My wrist is
heap of dust of it.  Be this conceit of mine as it may, gentlemen, at all
heard of the name even; and if by chance they should hear of it, they only
heard which denotes the fullest tension of life's utmost energies.  Quitting
heave to, or he would run him under water.  the captain presented a pistol.
heaved and heaved, still unrestingly heaved the black sea, as if its vast
heavy hammer within an inch of his teeth; meanwhile repeating a string of
heightened by a circumstance of the Town-Ho's story, which seemed obscurely
her captain was just as willing to lower for a fish that moment, as on the
her headway, he cried out in his old lion voice, -- Up helm!  Keep her off
here of the peculiar usages of whaling-vessels when meeting each other in
him a moment, and then said: --"I tell you what it is now, Captain, rather
him as a regular headsman in the hunt --above all for Captain Ahab to be
him in those latitudes; and therefore being very averse to quit them, and
himself in the end, shipmate?" and going to the mate, he looked at him
himself; particularly as his two comrades would not yield, the one to the
hinted his desires on that head.  Nevertheless he had taken private measures
his arm towards him.  "there are a few of us here (and I am one of them) who
his back, the after-oar reciprocating by rapping his knees in front.  He is
his duty to sit next him, while Radney stood
his eye on the Captain, and jerking out such sentences as these: --"It's not
his hull hove out and repaired.  Though no small passage was before her, yet,
his own canal, I have received good turns from one of these Canallers; I
his very eyelashes together.  Meantime, the crew driven from the forward
hissed the Lakeman.  "But I must," --and the rope was once more drawn back for
hole at the next summoning of the garrison; and armed with their keen
holy as the hills. --But the story."  I left off, gentlemen, where the Lakeman
home, he loudly hailed -- Ahoy there!  This is the Pequod, bound round the
home.  As if the waves had been fullers, this craft was bleached like the
homeward-bound whaleman, the Town-Ho, was encountered.  She was manned almost
honor of securing a man who had been fully ripe for murder.  But all these were
horizon.  But calm, snow-white, and unvarying; still directing its fountain of
human recognition which is the meanest slave's right; thus
hunt that mortal monster in person.  But such a supposition did by no means
hunt?  As a general thing, the joint-owners of the Pequod must have plainly
if the commonest chance favored, he did not at all fear that his ship would
impressive was the cry, and so deliriously exciting, that almost every soul
in a hundred would venture a lowering for them.  You may think with what
in accordance with the preternaturalness, as it seemed, which in many
in command over his fellow-men finds one of them to be very significantly his
in order to be the first of the three, though the last of the ten, to
in such a prodigious hurry, they run away from each other as soon as possible.
in that boat with his solitary knee fixed in the semi-circular depression in
in that way, that when he was wakened he could not well withhold the rest.
in the mate; but somehow still smothering the conflagration within him,
in vain strove to make himself heard without it.  Meantime his ship was still
incensed Radney shook the hammer within a few inches of his face, furiously
increased.  So much so, that now taking some alarm, the captain, making all
increasing the distance between.  While in various silent ways the seamen of
indulged in mundane amours.
infatuated man sought to run more than half way to meet his doom, after the
influences were struggling in her --one to mount direct to heaven, the other
inlander, Steelkilt was wild-ocean born, and wild-ocean nurtured; as much
insufferable maledictions.  Retreating not the thousandth part of an inch;
interest and curiosity at the time.  But almost everybody supposed that this
interflowing aggregate, those grand fresh-water seas of ours --Erie, and
intimation with his twisted hand he warned off the foolish and infatuated man;
into a doze, verbally opened their souls to each other in three sentences;
into the sea, on the other flank of the whale.  He struck out through the
invested in looking-glasses.  I wonder if he'd give a poor devil like me the
involuntarily lifted his voice for the monster, though for some little time
involve the remotest suspicion as to any boat's crew being assigned to that
island, and remain there six days.  If I do not, may lightnings strike me!"
it may, certain it is that while the subordinate phantoms soon found their
it might have been even authority over him; all this none knew.  But one
it turned out, seizing a large double war-canoe of the savages, and setting
it's not our interest; we want to be peaceable; we are ready to work, but we
its blue blandness, some thought there lurked a devilish charm, as for days
its most finished graduates, and that scarce any race of mankind, except
judgment blown, they could not have quivered more; yet still they felt no
keep the ship free; never mind if the leak should double on her.  In truth,
knife to the line.  He cut it; and the whale was free.  But, at some
last hailed him, and maddened by his long entombment in a place as black as
last place it was feared the insurgents might emerge, after breaking through
latest whaling intelligence from the cruising-ground to which she may be
laughed Don Sebastian.  "Proceed, Senor." "A moment!  Pardon!" cried another
leader, each in his own separate soul had suddenly lighted, it would seem,
lee scupper-holes.  Now, as you well know, it is not seldom the case in this
length, in obedience to Steelkilt, they preceded him down into their dark
life before our urn-like prow.  But, at last, when turning to the eastward,
lifted above a whaleman, in that assertion the pirate has no solid basis to
like arrows, the eager glances shot, yet the silvery jet was no more seen
like gouty old aldermen in patent chairs.  And as for a tiller, the
like some noted four corners of a great highway, where you meet more
line is running out are pinned over the groove in the bow: when all this was
little broken by the bodily exhaustion he was temporarily in, he answered him
little inclined to any sort of nervous apprehensiveness touching his own
little of his entering a boat in certain comparatively harmless vicissitudes
little of your vigorous North." "Aye?  Well then, Don, refill my cup.  Your
look-outs at those three mast-heads.  They seemed clad in the skins of
look-outs, while the quarter-deck hail was being heard from below.  Ship
looks faint; --fill up his empty glass!"  No need, gentlemen; one moment, and
lower jaw of the mate was stove in his head; he fell on the hatch spouting
main-mast.  Interweaving in its proper place this darker thread with the story
mainly at Steelkilt's instigation, they had resolved to maintain the
maintaining his legs.  nor is this any very easy matter; for in his rear is
man is elevated in that odd fashion, he has no proper foundation for his
mariner started to his feet as if some winged spirit had lighted in the
maritime approaches to our numerous territorial colonies from the East,
mast-heads of one ship to those of the other; yet, those forlorn-looking
mate drawing near as he was toiling at the pump with the rest, the Lakeman
mate.  That instant, as he fell on the whale's slippery back, the boat
mates, and harpooneers, who, undeterred by fearful rumors, were all anxious
matter of course, in the case of vessels owned in one seaport, and whose
matters consequent upon allowing a pig to run at large.  Now, gentlemen,
me board you a moment --I come in peace."  With that he leaped from the canoe,
me.  As soon as Steelkilt leaves me, I swear to beach this boat on yonder
meanwhile advancing upon the still seated Lakeman, with an uplifted cooper's
metropolitan freebooters
metropolitan superiority over the American whalers; regarding the long, lean
midnight ship with all its shrieking crew.  Thus, gentlemen, though an
midnight-spout had almost grown a forgotten thing, when, some days after, lo!
might merit.  But when Steelkilt made known his determination still to lead
might yet by inflexible firmness, only tempered by that common decency of
mincing knives (long, crescentic, heavy implements with a handle at each end)
mind it well--- if you flog me, I murder you!" "Say ye so?  then see how ye
mixed their before secret treacheries together; and when their leader fell
model of his nose." "Damn your eyes!  what's that pump stopping for?" roared
moment paused; it almost seemed as though he would have lowered a boat to
moment to interchange the news; and, perhaps, sitting down for a while and
moment, and as he steadfastly looked into the mate's malignant eye and
more at the pumps every day.  You must know that in a settled and civilized
more friendly and sociable contact.  And especially would this seem to be a
more whales than all the English, collectively, in ten years.  But this is a
morning, perched on our stays, rows of these birds were seen; and spite of
most abound in holiest vicinities.  "Is that a friar passing?" said Don
mumbling something about his being willing and able to do what the captain
mundane soul were in anguish and remorse for the long sin and suffering it had
murmured Ahab, gazing over into the water.  There seemed but little in the
mutineer made a tremulous motion of his cramped jaws, and then painfully
neatness in seamen; some of whom would not willingly drown without first
needs a definition, and should be incorporated into the Lexicon.  With that
neutral.  All night a wide-awake watch was kept by all the officers, forward
next door to you; under the long-flung shadow, and the snug patronizing lee
no words were spoken; and the silent ship, as if manned by painted sailors in
not create any unsubduable excitement in the forecastle.  But be all this as
nothing without corresponding breadth.  Merely make a spread angle of two
now far remote vessel; and some of those letters may be for the people of the
now menacing them with a pistol in each hand, just brought to him by the
now!"  And with that the pump clanged like fifty fire-engines; the men tossed
number --leaving on deck some twenty or more, who thus far had remained
oarsman's hair, and hold on there like grim death.
observed in him, and particularly his solicitude in having an extra coat of
occasion, and the captain, having no
occasionally put, and which are duly answered at the time.  Some two years
occasions --if so it had been that, by the process of hailing, he had obtained
ocean like our Atlantic, for example, some skippers think little of pumping
of Moby Dick.  To some the general interest in the White Whale was now wildly
of all her other perils, the Town-Ho still maintained her mast-heads, and
of all that.  Now, gentlemen, in square-sail brigs and three-masted ships,
of an audacious mariner as any.  And for Radney, though in his infancy he may
of churches.  For by some curious fatality, as it is often noted of your
of command.  Moreover, when the four boats were lowered, the mate's got the
of cruising.  Standing in iron hoops nailed to the mast, they swayed and
of each other's villanous likenesses.  But look at the godly, honest,
of his heart.  He was in Radney the chief mate's watch; and as if the
of his own touching all that matter.  Until Cabaco's published discovery, the
of it with his pike, sought to prick out the object of his resentment.  But
of seven of his former associates, and stung by the mocking voice that had
of the boat will often go far to topple him, because length of foundation is
of the boat's bottom, the Lakeman had slackened the line, so as to drop
of the chase, for the sake of being near the scene of action and giving his
of the company.  "In the name of all us Limeese, I but desire to express to
of the hull and tow it home.  The fact is, boys, that sword-fish only began
of the two traitors, till they yelled no more, but lifelessly hung their
of these moonlight nights, it was his wont to mount to the main-mast head,
of yore; for long allured by the perfidious silences that before had attended
officer of the deck happen to forget his duty in that respect, the
often before have noticed a similar sight, yet, to any monomaniac man, the
oftentimes pass on without so much as a single word of recognition, mutually
old man had ever before evinced.  But turning to the steersman, who thus far
on account of all hands gently subsiding to the bottom.  Nor in the solitary
on board instinctively desired a lowering.  Walking the deck with quick,
on board; at any rate, she will be sure to let her have some papers of a date
on the hatches and thus spoke to the officer: "Mr. Radney, I will not obey
one.  In sum, gentlemen, what the wildness of this canal life is, is
only when a leaky vessel is in some very out of the way part of those waters,
or nothing all day.  To this, Radney replied with an oath, in a most
or starlight, as the case might be; disappearing again for one whole day, or
orders in person, yet for Captain Ahab to have a boat actually apportioned to
other at the ends of the earth --off lone Fanning's Island, or the far away
other circumstances, Steelkilt systematically built the plan of his revenge.
other, in the matter; and both of them could not be first, for the ladder
other; and consequently, have all sorts of dear domestic things to talk
our fault; we didn't want it; I told him to take his hammer away; it was
our hootings, for a long time obstinately clung to the hemp, as though they
out for the Captain at midnight.  Thinking murder at hand, and smelling in
overbearing of Radney, the mate, a Vineyarder, and the bitterly provoked
own counsel (at least till all was over) concerning his own proper and
own instance they were put down in the ship's run for salvation.  Still, no
panting, and sat himself down on the windlass; his face fiery red, his eyes
part of the ship by the perilous seas that burstingly broke over its bows,
particular preparative heedfulness in Ahab must only be with a view to the
past it had been plainly beheld from the three sullen mast-heads.  All was now
perceived the stacks of powder-casks heaped up in him and the slow-match
perch at the fore-mast-head, I had a good view of that sight so remarkable to
perfidious allies, who at once claimed the
perhaps, have boarded her --judging by his subsequent conduct on similar
periodically relieved at them, those six-and-thirty men of his could easily
person as any fearless, unthinking creature on land or on sea that you can
place among the crew, though still as it were somehow distinct from them,
place to sit in, is pulled off to his visit all standing like a pine tree.
playing the devil with his estate, I can tell him.  But he's a simple old
plentiful than billiard-tables, and for ever open--and Corrupt as Lima.
pockets; but perhaps being generally very large, heavy hands, he carries them
point, gentlemen, that enraged by the defection
pointed pressure of his ivory limb; and also the anxiety he evinced in
poles, and you cannot stand them up.  Then, again, it would never do in plain
potency from the contrasting serenity of the weather, in which, beneath all
prescriptive province of the boys, if boys there be aboard.  Besides, it was
prime redeeming qualities of your man of violence, that at times he has as
prior to my first learning the events which I am about rehearsing to you,
private revenge upon the man who had stung him in the ventricles
probability would be that he and his shipmates would never again remember it,
proceed to put on lasting record.  For my humor's sake, I shall preserve the
profession of theirs has any peculiar glory about it.  It sometimes ends in
professions have their own little peculiarities of detail; so has the whale
promises, turn to, I say!" "Look ye, now," cried the Lakeman, flinging out
property of three confederate white seamen of that ship, one of whom, it
proud feelings; but whereto does all that circumnavigation conduct?  Only
pumps clanged as before.  Just after dark that day, when one watch had retired
quarrel as the backwoods seaman, fresh from the latitudes of buck-horn
quietly, and asked him for some twine to mend his hammock.  It was given him
raised a pistol.  "Sink the ship?" cried Steelkilt.  "Aye, let her sink.  Not
rapidly two or three times, and then suddenly throwing down his rope, said,"I
rather heavy weather, the ship still continued her cruisings, the mariners
rather oddish," said the Lakeman, holding it at arm's length before him;
reached port, desert her in a body.  But in order to insure the speediest end
reached the ears of Captain Ahab or his mates.  For that secret part of the
real phantoms, and asked of the sun and the moon why they were created and to
really valiant men even when aggrieved --this nameless phantom feeling,
repeated; but on the fourth morning a confused wrangling, and then a
reserved, and your Yankee, he does not fancy that sort of thing in anybody
response.  The Lakeman now patrolled the barricade, all the while keeping
rest, but Steelkilt shouted up to him a terrific hint to stop his babbling
resting in concert: then, how much more natural that upon the illimitable Pine
returned to the quarter-deck.  Twice every day for three days this was
revenge he had, and without being the avenger.  For by a mysterious fatality,
rig.  As for Men-of-War, when they chance to meet at sea, they first go
rigging were like the thick branches of trees furred over with hoar-frost.
rigging, and hailed the mortal crew.  There she blows!  Had the trump of
righted, and was dashed aside by the swell, while Radney was tossed over
rimmed varieties of races and of climes.  They contain round archipelagoes of
ringleader.
romantic isles, even as the Polynesian waters do; in large part, are shored
round the windlass, steadily followed by the mate with his menacing hammer,
round the world!  Round the world!  There is much in that sound to inspire
round upon us, and rend us at last in the remotest and most savage seas.
running up, besieged the cabin door, saying they durst not consort with the
rural boys and young men born along its line, the probationary life of the
sail for some other harbor.  The ship's company being reduced to but a
sail westward from the eaves of this good Golden Inn.  She was somewhere to
sail, stood away for the nearest harbor among the islands, there to have
sail, the ivory Pequod had slowly swept across four several cruising-grounds;
sailors had little foreseen it, though to be sure when, after being a little
sailors, but likewise with all the peculiar congenialities arising from a
savage craft bore down on him; and soon the voice of Steelkilt hailed him to
saved the would-be murderer from the bloody deed he had planned.  Yet complete
saying that sweeping the deck was not his business, and he would not do it.
scene at the rigging, he insisted, against the express counsel of the captain,
scene.  Such was the state of his mouth, that he could hardly speak; but
scoundrel, and smoke him along to the quarter-deck.  At intervals, he ran
scuffling was heard, as the customary summons was delivered; and suddenly
sea, the whalers have most reason to be sociable --and they are so.  Whereas,
seas.  "I see!  I see!  " impetuously exclaimed Don Pedro, spilling his
seemed shuddering fins, and ranged themselves fore and aft with the
seems, communicated it to Tashtego with Romish injunctions of secresy, but
seems, in a boat.  And now his bandaged cry was, to beach him on the whale's
seethings, made what seemed a silvery silence, not a solitude: on such a
self-same whale; and that whale, Moby Dick.  For a time, there reigned, too, a
setting the sail of his best whale-boat, steered straight before the wind for
several of her company; especially by radney the mate.  He commanded the
sheathing in the bottom of the boat, as if to make it better withstand the
ship.  at sunrise the captain went forward, and knocking on the deck,
ships themselves often pick up such queer castaway creatures found tossing
shirt, caught in the teeth that had destroyed him.  All four boats gave chase
shook the back-stay.  Hardly had he done so, when he was surrounded by the
shouted out, "There she rolls!  there she rolls!"  Jesu, what a whale!  It
shovel was almost as plainly meant to sting and insult Steelkilt, as though
shudder, sleeping in this gale, still thou steadfastly eyest thy purpose.
side-lunging strides, Ahab commanded the t'gallant sails and royals to be set,
sideways by settling down on his stretched legs; but a sudden, violent pitch
sight of the world's riveted eyes, it would never do, I say, for this
sign of mutiny reappeared among the rest.  On the contrary, it seemed, that
silent night a silvery jet was seen far in advance of the white bubbles at
silently burning along towards them; as he instinctively saw all this, that
silver chips, the foam-flakes flew over her bulwarks; then all this desolate
since the blow, he had lain in his berth; but that morning, hearing the
six of the foremast-men deliberately deserted among the palms; eventually, as
skeleton of a stranded walrus.  All down her sides, this spectral appearance
slide of the scuttle, planted their group of hands upon it, and loudly
snorting charger; and a brain, and a heart, and a soul in him, gentlemen,
snow-white chapels, whose spires stand almost like milestones, flows one
so far as to have some sort of a half-hinted influence; Heaven knows, but
so that the closed eyes were pointed towards the needle of the tell-tale that
some days before had been placidly swimming by our side, darted away with what
some merchant ships crossing each other's wake in the mid-Atlantic, will
some really landless latitude, that her captain begins to feel a little
some time or other, swims before all human hearts; while chasing such over
somehow fell from his hand into the sea; and the wind now rising amain, he
something down the crack, closed it, and turned the key upon them --ten in
sometimes cushioned seat there, and often steers himself with a pretty little
sort of shyness between them; for your Englishman is rather
soul, -- Rad, and a beauty too.  Boys, they say the rest of his property is
spear in hand, Radney sprang to the bow.  He was always a furious man, it
sports; his slouched and gaily-ribboned hat betoken his grand features.  A
sprained with ye!" he cried, at last; "but there is still rope enough left
spray, and, for an instant, was dimly seen through that veil, wildly seeking
stabbing him in the eye with the unflinching poniard of his glance,
stand on.  but what is a gam?  you might wear out your index-finger running
start; and none howled more fiercely with delight than did Steelkilt, as he
steamer, and the beech canoe; they are swept by Borean and dismasting blasts
steelkilt, clenching his right hand behind him and creepingly drawing it back,
steward.  "Come out of that, ye cut-throats!"  Steelkilt leaped on the
stiff an arm to back a poor stranger in a strait, as to plunder a wealthy
still remained at their duty toiling hard at the pumps, whose clinking and
stood in a line along the bulwarks in the waist; and the better to guard
storms.  But even had this not been the case, he would not after all,
story was unknown to the captain of the Town-Ho himself.  It was the private
straddling captain to be seen steadying himself the slightest particle by
straightened it a little there; all these things, I say, had awakened much
strained at his oar.  After a stiff pull, their harpooneer got fast, and,
strange forbearance and unwillingness to stir up the deeper passionateness in
stranger's flanks.  Though in the course of his continual voyagings Ahab must
stretched as a corpse, with his forehead crushed in.  But, gentlemen, a fool
strictest peacefulness, obey all orders to the last, and, when the ship
stroke of his dead limb sounded like a coffin-tap.  On life and death this old
struck as against a sunken ledge, and keeling over, spilled out the standing
style in which I once narrated it at Lima, to a lounging circle of my Spanish
substituting present Lima for distant Venice in your corrupt comparison.  Oh!
such generous conceits never entered the heads of the owners of the Pequod.
sudden maelstrom; seized the swimmer between his jaws; and rearing high up
summoned all hands; and separating those who had rebelled from those who had
summoned the prisoners to work; but with a yell they refused.  Water was
superior altitude.  Hence, I conclude, that in boasting himself to be high
superior in general pride of manhood, straightway against that man he
supplied with five extra men, as that same boat's crew, he well knew that
surrender, he would let them go with a reprimand, which he accordingly
surrender; and thereby secure whatever small chance of pardon such conduct
swam to the boat; and climbing the gunwale, stood face to face with the
swart visage and bold swagger are not unshunned in cities.  Once a vagabond on
sweeping a ship's deck at sea is a piece of household work which in all times
swung from a beam in the ceiling.  Terrible old man!  thought Starbuck with a
swung over a fathomless sea;
taken no part in the mutiny, he told the former that he had a good mind to
terror to the smiling innocence of the villages through which he floats; his
terror; rather pleasure.  for though it was a most unwonted hour, yet so
than kill ye, and be hung for such a shabby rascal, we won't lift a hand
thank him heartily; would fain be not ungrateful; but it is often one of the
that corporeally exasperated state, I know not; but so it happened.
that den.  but the scheme met with no opposition on the part of the other two;
that every individual moment, indeed, then comprises a peril; under these
that night, you would have thought that in him also two different things were
that night.  Every sailor swore he saw it once, but not a second time.  This
that off the Azores; off the Cape de Verdes; on the Plate (so called),
that they ever encamp around the halls of justice, so sinners, gentlemen,
that we left behind secure, were all the time before us.  Were this world an
that whenever and wherever descried; at however remote times, or in however
the Cape winds began howling around us, and we rose and fell upon the long,
the Captain and his posse leaped the barricade, and rapidly drawing over the
the Pequod were evincing their observance of this ominous incident at the
the Pequod who came to the full knowledge of it, and by such a strange
the air came so nigh to each other that we might almost have leaped from the
the backstays leading far aloft to where two of his comrades were standing
the blast, and gored the dark waves in her madness, till, like showers of
the bow.  Lit up by the moon, it looked celestial; seemed some plumed and
the bowels of despair; it was then that Steelkilt proposed to the two
the breeze.  Now this Radney, I suppose, was as little of a coward, and as
the buffalo; I believe I have broken a finger here against his cursed jaw;
the bulkhead below.  But the hours of darkness passed in peace; the men who
the cleat, and with the carpenter's chisel gouged out a little here and
the customary sweepers; who, not being billeted at the pumps, had done little
the dark for the blood, he and all his armed mates and harpooneers rushed for
the following night Tashtego rambled in his sleep, and revealed so much of it
the fore-ordaining soul of Steelkilt, the mate was already stark and
the gaunt pines stand like serried lines of kings in Gothic genealogies;
the grave always ready dug to the seaman's hand --that fatal hour was then to
the hollows of so many sails, made the buoyant, hovering deck to feel like
the holy-of-holies of great forests; on Roman arches over Indian rivers;
the horizontal piece in the boat's bow for bracing the knee against in
the immense projecting steering oar hitting him now and then in the small of
the issue of the gale.  Then Captain and crew become practical fatalists.
the job; he's come back again with a gang of ship-carpenters, saw-fish, and
the leak not being then considered at all dangerous, though, indeed, they
the life of them, cannot well avoid a mutual salutation; and stopping for a
the morning of the second day, when they were washing down the decks, that
the mutineers bolted up into the air from the desperate arms below that sought
the northward of the Line.  One morning upon handling the pumps, according to
the ocean prevailed; still in silence the men swung in the bowlines; still
the pallid bulwarks, was in the act of putting his trumpet to his mouth, it
the pump at last, with the rest of his band, the Lakeman went forward all
the pumps ran across the deck, and poured itself out in steady spouts at the
the rippling clear water; clear as any mountain spring, gentlemen --that
the seamen to adopt this sort of passiveness in their conduct, he kept his
the secret among themselves so that it never transpired abaft the Pequod's
the ship, by knocking off at a time like this?  Turn to!" and he once more
the side and step down into the cabin to chat with the captain, and it would
the state of New York; through numerous populous cities and most thriving
the stroke.  Steelkilt here hissed out something, inaudible to all but the
the stronger men in the Town-Ho that had been divided into gangs, taking
the uproar, and sought to drag their man out of it towards the forecastle.
the waves rolled by like scrolls of silver; and, by their soft, suffusing
the whaleboats for service; when some time after this Ahab was now and then
their hats off to it, and ere long that peculiar gasping of the lungs was
their mast-heads.  They were both Canallers.  "Canallers!" cried Don Pedro,
their whole way across it; though of a still, sleepy night, should the
them in so heavy a vessel.  After taking counsel with his officers, he
them to the last, they in some way, by some subtle chemistry of villany,
then lowered down to them, and a couple of handfuls of biscuit were tossed
there for ballast.  Nevertheless there have occurred instances, well
there?" said a shipmate.  "What do you think?  what does it look like?"
these events, as if verily mapped out before the world itself was charted.
these miscreants must come out.  Upon hearing the frantic project of their
these ships should not only interchange hails, but come into still closer,
they exchange visits by boats' crews: the two captains remaining, for the
they hung till morning.  "Damn ye," cried the Captain, pacing to and fro
they were in such a weakened condition that the captain durst not put off with
things invested the Pequod, were there wanting some of the seamen who swore
this effeminacy is dashed.  The brigandish guise which the Canaller so proudly
this round globe, they either lead us on in barren mazes or midway leave us
this time three years, if I am not at home, tell them to address them to-----
those same woods harboring wild Afric beasts of prey, and silken creatures
those so called judgments of God which at times are said to overtake some men.
though assuming for the time the almost continual command of the drenched and
thought not.  Ahab well knew that although his friends at home would think
threat, whatever that might have been.  The three men were then cut down,
three junior mates and the four harpooneers, who all crowded him to the deck.
through numberless perils to the very point whence we started, where those
through such a string of silly bowings and scrapings, such a ducking of
through sun and shade; by happy hearts or broken; through all the wide
through these latter waters that one serene and moonlight night, when all
thunderings of naval victories; at intervals, they yield their beaches to
thus completely wedged before and behind, and can only expand himself
tides were a conscience; and the great
tie he soon evinced himself to be linked with Ahab's peculiar fortunes; nay,
time, on board of one ship, and the two chief mates on the other.  There is
time, the Town-Ho reached her port --a savage, solitary place --where no
to capture so famous and precious a fish; while the dogged crew eyed askance,
to drive yawingly to some horizontal goal.  And had you watched Ahab's face
to involve with the whale a certain wondrous, inverted visitation of one of
to mark how the
to remove himself from the eye of Moby Dick.  But the whale rushed round in a
to restrain them.  Only three were left.  "Better turn to, now?" said the
to scorn; assuring him that if the pistol so much as clicked in the lock, he
to the three men in the rigging --"for you, I mean to mince ye up for the
to the voyage, they all agreed to another thing --namely, not to sing out for
topmost back.  Nothing loath, his bowsman hauled him up and up, through a
traits; and this Lakeman, a mariner, who though a sort of devil indeed,
transformed into those fowls and these fish, seemed condemned to swim on
travellers than in any other part.  It was not very long after speaking the
treacherously beckoning us on and on, in order that the monster might turn
treated, this Steelkilt had long been retained harmless and docile.  At all
troubled seas that are there; when the ivory-tusked Pequod sharply bowed to
true Ashantee, gentlemen; there howl your pagans; where you ever find them,
try-pots;" and, seizing a rope, he applied it with all his might to the backs
tumult on the deck, he had crept out, and thus far had watched the whole
turns at the pumps; and being the most athletic seaman of them all,
twisting round his head, said in a sort of hiss, "What I say is this --and
two days, or three; and somehow seeming at every distinct repetition to be
ultimate chase of Moby Dick; for he had already revealed his intention to
unaccountable odds and ends of strange nations come up from the unknown nooks
uncommon elevation, indeed; but only at the gallows.  And besides, when a
understand this; and all this and doubtless much more, the Lakeman fully
unostentatious, hospitable, sociable, free-and-easy whaler!  What does the
unstaked, watery locality, southerly from St.  Helena.  It was while gliding
unusual for ships to keep clanging at their pump-handles in full chorus even
unusual hours; his turban and the moon, companions in one sky.  But when,
up and down the columns of dictionaries, and never find the word.  Dr.
up with his lance in the prow, and haul in or slacken the line, at the word
upon being the first man on deck, when the time to make the rush should come.
upon the same piece of treachery, namely: to be foremost in breaking out,
upper sails to be well hoisted, sheeted home anew, and every way expanded to
us, we found ourselves launched into this tormented sea, where guilty beings
us, we won't do a hand's turn." "Down into the forecastle then, down with
us; while thick in our rear flew the inscrutable sea-ravens.  And every
vacancy between the boat and the ship, and down between this was the sea.
vacuity of life went away, but gave place to sights more dismal than before.
vengeance of Steelkilt, a Lakeman and desperado from Buffalo.  "Lakeman!
veriest trifles capriciously carry meanings.  Swim away from me, do ye?
view, let me learnedly define it.  Gam.  Noun --A social meeting of two (or more)
vigilance over their dangerous allies was this small
villages; through long, dismal, uninhabited swamps, and affluent, cultivated
visible world resting on him from the sides of the two ships, this standing
voice was heard announcing that silvery, moon-lit jet, every reclining
warring.  While his one live leg made lively echoes along the deck, every
was Moby Dick.  "Moby Dick!" cried Don Sebastian; "St.  Dominic!  Sir sailor,
was in the very act of striking, when another hiss stayed his uplifted arm.
was traced with long channels of reddened rust, while all her spars and her
washing their faces.  But in all vessels this broom business is the
well nigh the whole of this passage being attended by very prosperous breezes,
well-nigh as large and stout as any that ever sailed out of your old Callao to
were hurrying to execute the order,
were on the closer terms with me; and hence the interluding questions they
were seized up into the mizen rigging, like three quarters of meat, and there
whale-boat never admits of any such effeminacy; and therefore as in gamming a
whaler do when she meets another whaler in any sort of decent weather?  She
whales, in case any should be discovered.  For, spite of her leak, and spite
what end; when though, according to genesis, the angels indeed consorted
what may be called the secret part of the tragedy about to be narrated, never
what, men, old Rad's investment must go for it!  he had best cut away his part
whelmed.
whether they joined him or not.  That was the last night he should spend in
which had made Steelkilt Charlemagne, had he been born son to Charlemagne's
which he had been betrayed.  At his leisure, he employed the interval in
while out of port, all hands had concluded the customary business of fitting
wholly by Polynesians.  In the short gam that ensued she gave us strong news
whose exported furs give robes to Tartar Emperors; they mirror the paved
wicked is he.  Like Mark Antony, for days and days along his green-turfed,
wild barbarians, whose red painted faces flash from out their peltry wigwams;
will hold true concerning whaling vessels crossing each other's track on the
wind.  The strange, upheaving, lifting tendency of the taffrail breeze filling
windlass; when, resolved at last no longer to retreat, bethinking him that
windward, while an occasional squall of sleet or snow would all but congeal
with him, plunged headlong again, and went down.  Meantime, at the first tap
with the daughters of men, the devils also, add the uncanonical Rabbins,
without speaking he remained doggedly rooted to his seat, till at last the
without the occurrence of the least fatality, had it not been for the brutal
without uttering a single sound; when, after all this silence, his unearthly
won't be flogged." "Turn to!" roared the Captain.  Steelkilt glanced round
won't do it --let him go--cut him down: d'ye hear?"  But as the junior mates
wordless ahab stood up to the blast.  Even when wearied nature seemed
words, but the tone conveyed more of deep helpless sadness than the insane
working at the pumps at wide and easy intervals; but no good luck came; more
world!  Tell them to address all future letters to the Pacific ocean!  and
would at times be descried.  During all this blackness of the elements, Ahab,
would be hard to say, seeing that the Yankees in one day, collectively, kill
would bury him in bubbles and foam.  "What do you want of me?  cried the
would but admit one man at a time.  And here, gentlemen, the foul play of
would come round at two o'clock, in the morning of the third day from that in
would murder him.  But, gentlemen, the fool had been branded for the slaughter
ye, I'll keep ye there till ye're sick of it.  Down ye go." "Shall we?"
ye, and let's have a taste.  By the Lord, it's worth bottling!  I tell ye
yet that hair-turbaned Fedallah remained a muffled mystery to the last.
you, sir sailor, that we have by no means overlooked your delicacy in not
you.  Take that hammer away, or look to yourself."  But the predestinated mate
