






















     Crossing the
     Ere quitting, for the nonce, the
     I think that all this indirectly proceeds from the helpless perplexity of
     Nimble as a cat, Tashtego
     Now comes the Baling of
     To scan the lines of his face, or feel
     and all caught their breath, as half swinging --now over the sailors' heads,
     and fifty fins growing on each side of his upper chop, which arch over his
     and not till you get near twenty feet from the forehead do you come to the
     and then you have two almost equal parts, which before were naturally
     been impertinent.  As on your physiognomical voyage you sail round his vast
     dexterously he lands on the summit of the head.  There --still high elevated
     hoisted Tun.  He has carried with him a light tackle called a whip,
     into the great Kentucky Mammoth Cave of his stomach.  But let us hold on here
     its broad forward end forming the expanded vertical apparent forehead of the
     last elevated out of the water, and retained in that position by the
     poor Tash by the head.  He averred, that upon first thrusting in for him, a
     seem almost as hopeful as for Lavater to have scrutinized the wrinkles on the
     the Right Whale has two external spout-holes, the Sperm Whale only one.
     unless, indeed, your fancy has been fixed by the technical term crown also
     very heedfully, like a treasure-hunter in some old house, sounding the
     will ye!  Stand clear of the tackle!  cried a voice like the bursting of a
     yet, upon
--almost fatal operation whereby the Sperm Whale's great Heidelburgh Tun is
--cried daggoo again with a joyful shout; and soon after, Queequeg was seen
--particularly remark its front aspect, in all its compacted collectedness.  I
--the delicious death of an Ohio honey-hunter, who seeking honey in the crotch
--this green, barnacled thing, which the Greenlanders call the crown, and
.. < chapter lxxix 14  THE PRAIRE >
.. < chapter lxxv 17  THE RIGHT WHALE'S HEAD--CONTRASTED VIEW >
.. < chapter lxxvi 24  THE BATTERING-RAM >
.. < chapter lxxvii 2  THE GREAT HEIDELBURGH TUN >
.. < chapter lxxviii 2  CISTERN AND BUCKETS >
.. <p 330 >
.. <p 331 >
.. <p 331 >
.. <p 332 >
.. <p 333 >
.. <p 333n. >
.. <p 334 >
.. <p 334 >
.. <p 335 >
.. <p 336 >
.. <p 337 >
.. <p 337n. >
.. <p 338 >
.. <p 339 >
.. <p 340 >
.. <p 341 >
.. <p 342 >
.. <p 343 >
.. <p 343 >
.. <p 344 >
And as that famous great tierce is mystically carved in front, so the whale's
As in decapitating the whale, the operator's instrument is brought close to
But in the great Sperm Whale, this high and mighty god-like dignity inherent
But mark the other head's expression.  See that amazing lower lip, pressed by
Dome of the Pantheon.  Still, in that famous work of his, Lavater not only
Furthermore, you are now to consider that only in the extreme, lower, backward
I know not that it has been defined before.  A quoin is a solid which differs
Indiamen chance to crowd and crush towards each other in the docks, what do
Indian unconsciously revealing by those struggles the perilous depth to which
Indian wigwam.  Good Lord!  is this the road that Jonah went?  The roof is
Indian, was so heedless and reckless as to let go for a moment his one-handed
Look your last, now, on these venerable hooded heads, while they yet lie
Now, how had this noble rescue been accomplished?  Why, diving after the
Over this lip, as over a slippery threshold, we now slide into the mouth.
Phidias's marble Jove, and what a sorry remainder!  Nevertheless, Leviathan
Physiognomically regarded, the Sperm Whale is an anomalous creature.  He has
Physiognomist or Phrenologist has as yet undertaken.  Such an enterprise would
Quoin is not a Euclidean term.  It belongs to the pure nautical mathematics.
Rock of Gibraltar, or for Gall to have mounted a ladder and manipulated the
Securing this block, so that it hangs down from the yard-arm, he swings one
Shakespeare's or Melancthon's rise so high, and descend so low, that the eyes
Sperm Whale's head, I would have you, as a sensible physiologist, simply
Tashtego was sinking utterly down to the bottom of the sea!  But hardly had
This reminds us that the Right Whale really has a sort of whisker, or rather
Tun of the Sperm Whale embraces the entire length of the entire top of the
Turkish Muezzin calling the good people to prayers from the top of a tower.  A
Upon my word were I at Mackinaw, I should take this to be the inside of an
Whale were paved with horses' hoofs.  I do not think that any sensation lurks
Whale, a Platonian, who might have taken up Spinoza in his latter years.
Whale, the front of his head presents an almost wholly vertical plane to the
a dairy-maid's pail of new milk.  Carefully lowered from its height, the
a little off from the ship.  Ha!  ha!  cried Daggoo, all at once, from his
a moustache, consisting of a few scattered white hairs on the upper part of
a sulk and pout that will yield you some 500 gallons of oil and more.  A great
a very long pole.  Inserting this pole into the bucket, Tashtego downward
about a foot across.  Probably the mother during an important interval was
about twelve feet high, and runs to a pretty sharp angle, as if there were a
above the rest of the company, to whom he vivaciously cries --he seems some
accident against the vessel's side, so as firmly to embrace the jaw.  Does
adornment of his wondrous tun.  Moreover, as that of Heidelburgh was always
affect the countenance of the whale.  For as in landscape gardening, a spire,
almost before Tashtego could have reached its interior bottom.  Meantime,
alpine land lying along the snow line.  Few are the foreheads which like
amount of oil.  Ere this, you must have plainly seen the truth of what I
an arm thrust forth from the grass over a grave.  both!  both! --it is both!
analogical probability.  At any rate, if we yield to it, we must grant a far
and a lump of which sinks in it like lead almost.  But the tendency to rapid
and be ready to abide by this; that though the Sperm Whale stove a passage
and furnishing a supply of
and gazing upon its thousand pipes?  For a carpet to the organ we have a rug
and now over the water --Daggoo, through a thick mist of spray, was dimly
arm, impotently rebounds from it.  It is as though the forehead of the Sperm
as ordinary fish possess what is called a swimming bladder in them, capable,
at once a queer accident happened.  Whether it was that Tashtego, that wild
at that hanging lower lip!  what a huge sulk and pout is there!  a sulk and
at will, of distension or contraction; and as the Sperm Whale, as far as I
at.  But supplementary to this, it has hypothetically occurred to me, that
atmospheric distension and contraction.  If this be so, fancy the
attached to one end of the whip; while the other end, being stretched across
backwards, so as to furnish more of a retreat for the long socket which
be lodged there.  Here is a vital point; for you must either satisfactorily
be sagaciously urged, how is this?  We thought the tissued, infiltrated head
be very long in following.  Can you catch the expression of the Sperm Whale's
beadle on his throne.  In some particulars, perhaps, the most imposing
beautiful crystalline shoots, as when the first thin delicate ice is just
beheld clinging to the pendulous tackles, while poor, buried-alive
bestowed upon it; in which case you will take great interest in thinking how
bird's nest in its crotch.  At any rate, when you watch those live crabs that
blemish at all.  Nay, it is an added grandeur.  A nose to the whale would have
blinds and whiskers for a moment, and, standing in the Right Whale's mouth,
blinds of bone; no huge lower lip; and scarcely anything of a tongue.  Again,
boats; the timidity and liability to queer frights, so common to such whales;
boldly striking out with one hand, and with the other clutching the long hair
boneless toughness,  inestimable by any man who has not handled it.  The
braining feats; I trust you will have renounced all ignorant incredulity,
brigandish expression to his otherwise solemn countenance.
bring your mind to bear on it, the other will be utterly excluded from your
brisk.
bristles, fins, whiskers, blinds, or whatever you please, furnish to
broad view, the Right Whale's head bears a rather inelegant resemblance to a
buried harpooneer should grasp it, and so be hoisted out.  In heaven's name,
but not the less true events, perhaps anywhere to be found in all recorded
by a ladder to the summit, have a peep down the mouth; and were it not that
by the other parts of the head remaining undetached from it, so that it sank
by this tooth, and look about us where we are.  What a really beautiful and
cases this lower jaw --being easily unhinged by a practised artist --is
certainty of this criterion is far from demonstrable, yet it has the savor of
characteristics of other beings than man.  Therefore, though I am but ill
chaste-looking mouth!  from floor to ceiling, lined, or rather papered with a
clean out of sight!  Man overboard!  cried Daggoo, who amid the general
clearing the whip --which had somehow got foul of the great cutting tackles --a
comprehensive, combining, and subtle than man's, that he can at the same
consisting of only two parts, travelling through a single-sheaved block.
consternation first came to his senses.  Swing the bucket this way!  and
contact, any merely hard substance,
contemporary consciousness.  How is it, then, with the whale?  True, both his
costly material the heidelburgh Tun was coated within, but in superlative
creatures, nay in man himself, very often the brow is but a mere strip of
crowbars.  By itself this sufficiently illustrates the obvious fact I drive
crown bone, form those Venetian blinds which have elsewhere been cursorily
crown has been put together for him in this marvellous manner.  But if this
cupola, monument, or tower of some sort, is deemed almost indispensable to
curious articles, including canes, umbrella-stocks, and handles to
curious internal structure of the thing operated upon.  Regarding the Sperm
curled brow of the bull has a touch of the grand in it.  Pushing heavy cannon
deck, let us now have a good long look at the Right Whale's head.  As in
deliverance, or rather, delivery of Tashtego, was successfully accomplished,
dexterous heave and toss, had wrought a somerset upon the Indian; so that
difference: about the head this envelope, though not so thick, is of a
different heads.  To sum up, then; in the Right Whale's there is no great
disciple Spurzheim failed to throw out some hints touching the phrenological
disengaged and hoisted on deck for the purpose of extracting the ivory teeth,
diver could be seen.  Some hands now jumped into a boat alongside, and pushed
divide it into two quoins, whereof the lower is the bony structure, forming
divided by an internal wall of a thick tendinous substance.  The lower
down, come down!  yelled the seamen to Daggoo, but
drop, he would still remain suspended; the negro having cleared the foul
dropped into the sea, like Niagara's Table-Rock into the whirlpool; the
east when troubled with the morning.  in the repose of the pasture, the
elastic white fibres throughout its whole extent.  The upper part, known as
end of the rope, till it is caught and firmly held by a hand on deck.  Then,
enormous cutting tackles, whose hempen combinations, on one side, make
entire strain now depended, seemed every instant to be on the point of giving
entirely under your chin.  Moreover you observe that the whale has no external
enveloped in the thickest and toughest of ox-hide.  That bravely and uninjured
estimated as piled wood is --by the cord; and all obedient to one volition, as
expansive monster; when I shall show you some of his more inconsiderable
exposure to the air, after death, it soon begins to concrete; sending forth
eye upon this strange, crested, comb-like incrustation on the top of the mass
eyes, in themselves, must simultaneously act; but is his brain so much more
facing death?  This Right Whale I take to have been a Stoic; the Sperm
falling into a cistern ashore; an accident which not seldom happens, and
fashion.  And as those ancient dames moved about gaily, though in the jaws of
features; and since it perhaps
feet for a good sized whale, you have more than twenty-six feet for the depth
fishery, upon whom these spikes fall with impaling force.  But far more
for the great head itself, that was doing as well as could be expected.  And
forehead seem now faded away.  I think his broad brow to be full of a
forming in water.  A large whale's case generally yields about five hundred
from a wedge in having its sharp end formed by the steep inclination of one
full cranial development.  So that this whole enormous boneless mass is as one
full-freighted vessel is caught by an appointed hand, and quickly emptied
gallons of sperm, though from unavoidable circumstances, considerable of it
general shape the noble Sperm Whale's head may be compared to a Roman
gigantic galliot-toed shoe.  Two hundred years ago an old Dutch voyager
glistening white membrane, glossy as bridal satins.  But come out now, and
greater age to the Right Whale than at first glance will seem reasonable.  In
guides the bucket into the Tun, till it entirely disappears; then giving the
hammered substance, as I have before said, much heavier than the sea water,
hand-over-hand, down the other part, the Indian drops through the air, till
harder, and deeper and deeper into the Tun, until some twenty feet of the
has to ram his long pole harder and
have likewise fallen into Plato's honey head, and sweetly perished there?
have relaxed, leaving him there in that ungainly sort of plight, a reproach
he had sunk.  At this instant, while Daggoo, on the summit of the head, was
head in your jolly-boat, your noble conceptions of him are never insulted by
head; and since --as has been elsewhere set forth --the head embraces one third
heads for hours, and never discover that organ.  The ear has no external leaf
hearing?  Not at all. -- Why then do you try to enlarge your mind?  Subtilize
him, and the other in an exactly opposite direction?  If he can, then is it as
hint.  so long as a man's eyes are open in the light, the act of seeing is
history.  You observe that in the ordinary swimming position of the Sperm
hold on the great cabled tackles suspending the head; or whether the place
horses, birds, serpents, and fish; and dwells in detail upon the
houses.
idle whim, but it has always seemed to me, that the extraordinary
immense snuff-box, with a hinge at one end, instead of one side.  If you pry
imperceptible from without.  Is it not curious, that so vast a being as the
impregnable, uninjurable wall, and this most buoyant thing within; there
in Hackluyt uses the following elegant language: There are about two hundred
in any other part of the creature.  Though in life it remains perfectly fluid,
in it.  Bethink yourself also of another thing.  When two large, loaded
in the brow is so immensely amplified, that gazing on it, in that full front
in the forehead's wrinkles, you seem to track the antlered thoughts descending
in the teeth, too, of the most untoward and apparently hopeless impediments;
in this way; several tubs had been filled with the fragrant sperm; when all
inexplicable manner in which he now depresses his head altogether beneath the
inside of the whale's mouth; another, hogs' bristles; a third old gentleman
into a large tub.  Then re-mounting aloft, it again goes through the same
invaluable contents.  It is this decapitated end of the head, also, which is at
investigated, is there any incongruity in this comparison.  It may be but an
involuntary; that is, he cannot then help mechanically seeing whatever
irresistibleness of that might, to which the most impalpable and destructive
is of so mighty a magnitude, all his proportions are so stately, that the
is over, a stout iron-bound bucket, precisely like a well-bucket, has been
is spilled, leaks, and dribbles away, or is otherwise irrevocably lost in the
it is quite impossible for him, attentively, and completely, to examine any
it on deck.  This particular tongue now before us; at a passing glance I
it up, so as to get it overhead, and expose its rows of teeth, it seems a
it was.  Now, had Tashtego perished in that head, it had been a very precious
it.  Let us now with whatever levers and steam-engines we have at hand, cant
its hand, was for one swift moment seen hovering over the bulwarks.  The
itself.  We have thee there.  Not at all, but I have ye; for at the time
jaw is afterwards sawn into slabs, and piled away like joists for building
jaw, like the Sperm Whale's.  Nor in the Sperm Whale are there any of those
know, has no such provision in him; considering, too, the otherwise
landsmen, though they themselves may have either seen or heard of some one's
latter is entirely and evenly covered over with a membrane, so as to be quite
leaving little but the dense tendinous wall of the well --a double welded,
leg was presented; but well knowing that that was not as it ought to be, and
lifeless head throbbing and heaving just below the surface of the sea, as if
like a ship's jib-boom.  This whale is not dead; he is only dispirited; out
like iron or wood.  No, they hold there a large, round wad of tow and cork,
likened its shape to that of a shoemaker's last.  And in this same last or
limpid, and odoriferous state.  Nor is this precious substance found unalloyed
line, rammed down the bucket into the now collapsed well, meaning that the
long, hanging straight down at right-angles with his body, for all the world
look around you afresh.  Seeing all these colonnades of bone so methodically
look at this portentous lower jaw, which seems like the long narrow lid of an
lung-celled honeycombs there may possibly have some hitherto unknown and
magazine; he has, therefore, to be uncommonly heedful, lest a careless,
man, cried Stubb, are you ramming home a cartridge there? --Avast!  How
marvellous a thing in him, as if a man were able simultaneously to go through
mentioned.  The edges of these bones are fringed with hairy fibres, through
might occasion great trouble; -- he had thrust back the leg, and by a
modifications of expression discernible therein.  Nor have Gall and his
moment of time attentively examine two distinct prospects, one on one side of
most modifies and finally controls their combined expression; hence it would
mounts aloft; and without altering his erect posture, runs straight out upon
much worn down, but undecayed; nor filled after our artificial fashion.  The
must involve them.  But the ear of the whale is full as curious as the eye.  If
mystical brow is as that great golden seal affixed by the German emperors to
near its bottom, so as to scuttle a large hole there; then dropping his
nestle here on this bonnet, such an idea will be almost sure to occur to you;
next, a loud splash announced that my brave Queequeg had dived to the
no proper nose.  And since the nose is the central and most conspicuous of the
nose; and that what nose he has --his spout hole --is on the top of his head;
not this whole head seem to speak of an enormous practical resolution in
now come to separate these two objects, and surround each by a circle of
now quiet, swinging perch overhead; and looking further off from the side,
now, I pray you, to that marvellous and --in this particular instance
objects are before him.  Nevertheless, any one's experience will teach him,
obstetrics on the run, as you may say.  Yes, it was a running delivery, so
of a hollow tree, found such exceeding store of it, that leaning too far
of all elements contributes.  Now, mark.  Unerringly impelling this dead,
of cathedrals; would that make him any longer of sight, or sharper of
of his head.  This aspect is sublime.  In thought a fine human brow is like the
of his head; it has hypothetically occurred to me, I say, that those mystical
of sorts, perhaps; hypochondriac; and so supine, that the hinges of his jaw
of the Indian.  Drawn into the waiting boat, they were quickly brought to
of the Sperm Whale, was the lightest and most corky part about him; and yet
of the softest Turkey --the tongue, which is glued, as it were, to the floor of
of the tun, when it is lengthwise hoisted up and down against a ship's side.
of the whole length of the creature, then setting that length down at eighty
old times, there seem to have prevailed the most curious fancies concerning
on the whip itself, the hoisters ran him high up to the top of the head,
on this, you would take the head for the trunk of some huge oak, with a
or ninetieth bucket came suckingly up --my God!  poor Tashtego --like the twin
over the sperm whale's head, so that it may lie bottom up; then, ascending
over, it sucked him in, so that he died embalmed.  How many, think ye,
particular, the demand has long been on the decline.  It was in Queen Anne's
pearl-colored membrane, like the line of a fine pelisse, forming the inner
perceived that the front of the Sperm Whale's head is a dead, blind wall,
performing his agile
perishing; smothered in the very whitest and daintiest of fragrant
physiognomical view to be had of the Sperm Whale, is that of the full front
pity, now, that this unfortunate whale should be hare-lipped.  The fissure is
point of view.  If you stand on its summit and look at these two f-shaped
pole have gone down.  Now, the people of the Pequod had been baling some time
poor Tash fell in, the case had been nearly emptied of its lighter contents,
pout, by carpenter's measurement, about twenty feet long and five feet deep;
prairie-like placidity, born of a speculative indifference as to death.
previous place I have described to you how the blubber wraps the body of the
profound darkness; then, in order to see one of them, in such a manner as to
provincials then?  What befel the weakling youth lifting the dread goddess's
putting one foot into it, so as the better to secure his slippery hand-hold
qualified for a pioneer, in the application of these two semi-sciences to the
queer adventure of the Gay-Header's will be sure to seem incredible to some
quite a wilderness of ropes in that quarter.  Thus much being said, attend
ranged about, would you not think you were inside the great Haarlem organ,
receives the boom-like lower jaw; you observe that the mouth is entirely
reciprocating bucket in a veritable well, dropped head-foremost down into
regular ridge-pole there; while these ribbed, arched, hairy sides, present us
replenished with the most excellent of the wines of the Rhenish valleys, so
rescue.  One packed rush was made to the side, and every eye counted every
richness that coating could not possibly have compared with the silken
riding-whips.  With a long, weary hoist the jaw is dragged on board, as if it
right.  While the ear of the former has an external opening, that of the
ripple, as moment followed moment, and no sign of either the sinker or the
rocket.  Almost in the same instant, with a thunder-boom, the enormous mass
round until the deep cistern will yield no more.  Towards the end, Tashtego
sailing down the Peruvian coast, when earthquakes caused the beach to gape.
same deficiency which in the sculptured Jove were hideous, in him is no
sanctum sanctorum of the whale.  Only one sweeter end can readily be recalled
seem that its entire absence, as an external appendage, must very largely
settle this matter with yourself, or for ever remain an infidel as to one of
severest pointed harpoon, the sharpest lance darted by the strongest human
sharp cracking noise was heard; and to the unspeakable horror of all, one of
shoe, that old woman of the nursery tale, with the swarming brood, might
shook as if smitten by an iceberg.  The one remaining hook, upon which the
short-handled sharp spade being sent up to him, he diligently searches for
should say it was a six-barreler; that is, it will yield you about that
side, instead of the mutual tapering of both sides.
sinking in this substance was in the present instance materially counteracted
slipperiness of the curb of the Sperm Whale's well.  But, peradventure, it may
sloping part of the front of the head, is there the slightest vestige of bone;
slowly descending head, Queequeg with his keen sword had made side lunges
so often will insist upon obtruding even when beholding the mightiest royal
some unexaggerated, intelligent estimate of whatever battering-ram power may
specialities and concentrations of potency everywhere lurking in this
spermaceti; coffined, hearsed, and tombed in the secret inner chamber and
spiracles, the apertures in its sounding-board.  Then, again, if you fix your
spout-holes, you would take the whole head for an enormous bass-viol, and
started with --that the Sperm Whale and the Right Whale have almost entirely
subdivided part, called the junk, is one immense honeycomb of oil, formed by
substance which so impregnably invests all that apparent effeminacy.  In some
suddenly relieved hull rolled away from it, to far down her glittering copper;
surface of the Sperm Whale's case.  It will have been seen that the Heidelburgh
surface, and anon swims with it high elevated out of the water; considering
swims behind it all a mass of tremendous life, only to be adequately
sword, had thrust his long arm far inwards and upwards, and so hauled out our
takes the jam which would have snapped all their oaken handspikes and iron
tapped.
terrible is it to behold, when fathoms down in the sea, you see some sulky
terrific portcullis; and such, alas!  it proves to many a poor wight in the
that hard white whalebone with which the fishermen fashion all sorts of
that moment seized with some momentous idea; whereas it was only the poor
that though he can take in an undiscriminating sweep of things at one glance,
the Case, may be regarded as the great Heidelburgh Tun of the Sperm Whale.
the Case.  But to comprehend it aright, you must know something of the
the Southern fishers the bonnet of the Right Whale; fixing your eyes solely
the blinding vapor cleared away, when a naked figure with a boarding-sword in
the body is now completely separated from it, with a lantern we might descend
the bucket within grasp of the Indian, to whom another person has reached up
the bumps on the head of this Leviathan; this is a thing which no
the completion of the scene; so no face can be physiognomically in keeping
the cranium and jaws, and the upper an unctuous mass wholly free from bones;
the creature's age, as the age of an oak by its circular rings.  Though the
the crossing and re-crossing, into ten thousand infiltrated cells, of tough
the deck, is there held by two or three alert hands.  These last now hoist
the deck; but Tashtego was long in coming to, and Queequeg did not look very
the demonstrations of two distinct problems in Euclid.  Nor, strictly
the jaw is lashed down to ringbolts, and a tackle being rigged from aloft,
the ladies their busks and other stiffening contrivances.  But in this
the lens of Herschel's great telescope; and his ears capacious as the porches
the most appalling,
the most delicate oil; yet, you are now to be apprised of the nature of the
the mouth.  It is very fat and tender, and apt to tear in pieces in hoisting
the outer end of the lower jaw.  Sometimes these tufts impart a rather
the overhanging main-yard-arm, to the part where it exactly projects over the
the proper place to begin breaking into the Tun.  In this business he proceeds
the reflection that he has a nose to be pulled.  A pestilent conceit, which
the sailors do?  They do not suspend between them, at the point of coming
the same course with fencing and boxing, riding and rowing.  I know that this
the small fish, when open-mouthed he goes through the seas of brit in feeding
the smallest insect.  So that when I shall hereafter detail to you all the
the spot where an entrance is subsequently forced into the spermaceti
the tun of the whale contains by far the most precious of all his oily
the two enormous hooks suspending the head tore out, and with a vast
the unobstructed elasticity of its envelop; considering the unique interior
the whale, as you may say; even so, in a shower, with the like
their decrees.  It signifies God: done this day by my hand.  But in most
themselves seem clear, eternal, tideless mountain lakes; and all above them
there are certain curious marks, curves, hollows, and ridges, whereby some
there to drink, as the Highland hunters track the snow prints of the deer.
there was a terrible tumult.  Looking over the side, they saw the before
there?  It is the same he died with, only some of the longer wrinkles in the
these
these blinds.  One voyager in Purchas calls them the wondrous whiskers
they drag out these teeth, as Michigan oxen drag stumps of old oaks out of
thing for salamander giants only to encounter; how small the chances for the
third of his entire length from the front.  Wherefore, you must now have
this great Tun of Heidelburgh, and with a horrible oily gurgling, went
this mighty monster is actually a diademed king of the sea, whose green
this visual matter as touching the Leviathan.  But I must be content with a
thou makest it sink in an element of a far greater specific gravity than
thoughtlessness, do we nowadays fly under the same jaws for protection; the
three hundred on a side, which depending from the upper part of the head or
through an ear which is smaller than a hare's?  But if his eyes were broad as
through the Isthmus of Darien, and mixed the Atlantic with the Pacific, you
thus, through the courage and great skill in obstetrics of Queequeg, the
ticklish business of securing what you can.  I know not with what fine and
time that the bone was in its glory, the farthingale being then all the
time.  In the central blinds of bone, as they stand in their natural order,
time; never mind if they lie side by side and touch each other.  But if you
to all his tribe, who must, no doubt, imprecate lock-jaws upon him.  In most
to drawing teeth.  With a keen cutting-spade, Queequeg lances the gums; then
to their ears, this important difference is to be observed between the sperm
to this great head it begins to assume different aspects, according to your
together; for one will soon sink, unrecorded, in the sea; the other will not
tongue on each side of his mouth.  As every one knows, these same hogs'
treats of the various faces of men, but also attentively studies the faces of
two things --however large or however small --at one and the same instant of
umbrella being a tent spread over the same bone.  But now forget all about
under the head, much in the same way, indeed, as though your own mouth were
unsuspected connexion with the outer air, so as to be susceptible to
untimely stroke should invade the sanctuary and wastingly let out its
up mountain defiles, the elephant's brow is majestic.  Human or animal, the
vacillations of movement displayed by some whales when beset by three or four
vast plaited forehead forms innumerable strange devices for the emblematical
veil at Sais?
very comfortably be lodged, she and all her progeny.  But as you come nearer
very slowly and deliberately indeed, affording Queequeg a fair chance for
vibration the enormous mass sideways swung, till the drunk ship reeled and
view, you feel the Deity and the dread powers
vintages; namely, the highly-prized spermaceti, in its absolutely pure,
volition, in which their divided and diametrically opposite powers of vision
wad.  Finally, though, as will soon be revealed, its contents partly comprise
walls to find where the gold is masoned in.  By the time this cautious search
war-chariot (especially in front, where it is so broadly rounded); so, at a
was exactly, there is no telling now; but, on a sudden, as the eightieth
water; you observe that the lower part of that front slopes considerably
way; an event still more likely from the violent motions of the head.  Come
we saw an arm thrust upright from the blue waves; a sight strange to see, as
well of sperm; no ivory teeth at all; no long, slender mandible of a lower
were an anchor; and when the proper time comes --some few days after the other
whale and the
whale be a king, he is a very sulky looking fellow to grace a diadem.  Look
whale should see the world through so small an eye, and hear the thunder
whale's head as a solid oblong, you may, on an inclined plane, sideways
whale, I will do my endeavor.  I try all things; I achieve what I can.
whale, as the rind wraps an orange.  Just so with the head; but with this
whale, floating there suspended, with his prodigious jaw, some fifteen feet
whale.  At the middle of the forehead horizontally subdivide this upper quoin,
whalemen calculate
whatever; and into the hole itself you can hardly insert a quill, so
where he stood was so treacherous and oozy; or whether the Evil One himself
which is a lesson by no means to be forgotten.  Midwifery should be taught in
which the Right Whale strains the water, and in whose intricacies he retains
wild wood-lands.  There are generally forty-two teeth in all; in old whales,
will that help him; jamming that iron-bound bucket on top of his head?  Avast,
with much less reason too than the Indian's, considering the exceeding
with one hand holding on to the heavy tackles, so that if the head should
with the next trial, he came forth in the good old way --head foremost.  As
with those wondrous, half vertical, scimetar-shaped slats of whale-bone, say
without a single organ or tender prominence of any sort whatsoever.
without the elevated open-work belfry of the nose.  Dash the nose from
wondrously minute is it.  It is lodged a little behind the eye.  With respect
word to the seamen at the whip, up comes the bucket again, all bubbling like
work --Queequeg, Daggoo, and Tashtego, being all accomplished dentists, are set
would have it to fall out so, without stating his particular reasons; how it
would have you investigate it now with the sole view of forming to yourself
would not elevate one hair of your eye-brow.  For unless you own the whale,
you are an entire stranger to their race, you might hunt over these two
you are but a provincial and sentimentalist in Truth.  But clear Truth is a
you observe that his eyes and ears are at the sides of his head, nearly one
