























     (Ahab moving to go on deck; Pip catches
     Ahab goes; Pip steps one step forward.) Here he this instant stood;
     And now that at the proper time and place,
     Away with me!  let us fly these deadly waters!  let us home!  Wife and child,
     But here I'll stay, though this stern strikes rocks; and they bulge
     But only by the replacing of the cap was that omen accounted good.  Ahab's
     Fedallah; and then settling his firm relying eye upon the chief mate, said,
     Ha!  yonder!  look yonder, men!  cried a foreboding voice in her wake.  In
     It was a clear steel-blue day.  The
     That night, in the mid-watch,
     The intense Pequod
     Then God keep thee, old man --see'st thou that --pointing to the hammock -- I
     To the credulous mariners it seemed the same silent spout they had so long
     Weep so, and I will murder thee!  have a care, for Ahab too is mad.
     freely giving his whole life into such an otherwise distrusted person's
     he descended into his cabin, leaving the strange captain transfixed at this
     horns; his lovely, leering eyes sideways intent upon the maid; with smooth
     power; how then can this one small heart beat; this one small brain think
     right away from us; cannot have seen the ship yet.  Be dumb, man!  Stand
     the contrast was only in shades and shadows without; those two seemed one;
     three ashore.  When I think of this life I have led; the desolation of
     till you say aye to me.  Do to me as you would have me do to you in the like
     to Moby Dick.  That hazard shall not be thine.  No, no!  not with the far
     whole oceans away, from that young girl-wife I wedded past fifty, and
-- Take the rope, sir --I give it into thy hands, Starbuck.  Then arranging
-- What d'ye see? --sharp!  sharp!  But when three or four days had slided by,
--advancing towards the hammock with uplifted hands -- may the resurrection and
--and how for forty years I have fed upon dry salted fare -- fit emblem of the
--it was strange, that this was the very man he should select for his watchman;
--oh, weariness!  heaviness!  Guinea-coast slavery of solitary command! --when
.. < chapter cxxix 2  THE CABIN >
.. < chapter cxxx 26  THE HAT >
.. < chapter cxxxi 10  THE PEQUOD MEETS THE DELIGHT >
.. < chapter cxxxii 26  THE SYMPHONY >
.. < chapter cxxxiii 2  THE CHASE--FIRST DAY >
.. <p 524 >
.. <p 525 >
.. <p 526 >
.. <p 526 >
.. <p 527 >
.. <p 528 >
.. <p 529 >
.. <p 530 >
.. <p 531 >
.. <p 531 >
.. <p 532 >
.. <p 532 >
.. <p 533 >
.. <p 534 >
.. <p 535 >
.. <p 536 >
.. <p 537 >
.. <p 538 >
.. <p 539 >
.. <p 540 >
Ahab been!  Why this strife of the chase?  why weary,
Ahab forsaken the peaceful land, for forty years to make war on the horrors
Ahab leaned over the side, and watched how his shadow in the water sank and
Ahab; and Ahab still stood like an anvil, receiving every shock, but
Alike, joy and sorrow, hope and fear, seemed ground to finest dust, and
But the suddenly started Pequod was not quick enough to escape the sound of
Come, my Captain, study out the course,
Fate reserved the doubloon for me.  I only; none of ye could have raised the
Fedallah now; such ceaseless shudderings shook him; that the men looked
God!  God! --crack my heart!-- stave my brain! --mockery!  mockery!  bitter,
He must be up here; let's try the door.  What?  neither lock, nor bolt, nor
He would stand still for hours: but never sat or leaned; his wan but
Here, brush this old hair aside; it blinds me, that I seem to weep.  Locks
Hither, and thither, on high, glided the snow-white wings of small,
How cheerily, how hilariously, O my Captain, would we bowl on our way to
I stand in his air, --but I'm alone.  Now were even poor Pip here I could
I think of all this; only half-suspected, not so keenly known to me before
I were Adam, staggering beneath the piled centuries since Paradise.  God!
Indian's head was almost on a level with Ahab's heel.  From this height the
Jove, not that great majesty Supreme!  did surpass the glorified White Whale
Listen, and thou wilt often hear my ivory foot upon the deck, and still know
Lower me, Mr. Starbuck; lower, lower, --quick, quicker!  and he slid through
Martha, laughing-eyed elves, heedlessly gambol around their old sire;
Nantucketer;
Parsee his abandoned substance.  And yet, somehow, did Ahab --in his own proper
Parsee's glance awed his; or somehow, at least, in some wild way, at times
Rachel, weeping for her children, because they were not.
Soon that peculiar odor, sometimes to a great distance given forth by the
Still again both seemed yoked together, and an unseen
Stubb and Flask might not willingly overlook the sight he sought.  But if
Stubb no more strove to raise a smile; Starbuck no more strove to check one.
Tashtego.  Not the same instant; not the same --no, the doubloon is mine,
There again! --there again!  he cried, in long-drawn, lingering, methodic
Whale?  Look!  replied the hollow-cheeked captain from his taffrail; and
White Whale first.  There she blows!  there she blows! --there she blows!
a black!  and crazy! --but methinks like-cures-like applies to him too; he
a constant watchman, the hoisted sailor should by some carelessness of the
a little lad, but twelve years old, whose father with the earnest but
a mild, mild wind, and a mild looking sky; and the air smells now, as if it
a whole body, sir; do ye but use poor me for your one lost leg; only tread
above them so, that all their bodings, doubts, misgivings, fears, were fain
advance of the prow: and at last disappeared; while from the point of that
affected it.  Such an added, gliding strangeness began to invest the thin
after meeting the children-seeking Rachel; and no spout had yet been seen;
after so long and wide a preliminary cruise, Ahab, --all other whaling waters
again, and let the ship sail as before.  Hurriedly turning, with averted face,
ago beheld in the moonlit Atlantic and Indian Oceans.  And did none of ye see
ago! --ago!  Forty years of continual whaling!  forty years of privation, and
ahead through the horizontal vacancy between the main-top-sail and
all hands!  Thundering with the butts of three clubbed handspikes on the
all the boat-sails set --all the paddles plying; with rippling swiftness,
all the time; recklessly making me ready to do what in my own proper, natural
almost that same instant, sir, that Captain Ahab did, and I cried out, said
among waves whose hand-clappings were suspended by exceeding rapture, Moby
an eagle flew thrice round Tarquin's head, removing his cap to replace it,
and behind, the blue waters interchangeably flowed over into the moving valley
and concern.  Meantime, now the stranger was still beseeching his poor boon of
and feel thus intolerably old?  Close!  stand close to me, Starbuck; let me
and fro in the deeps, far down in the bottomless blue, rushed mighty
and let us away!  See, see!  the boy's face from the window!  the boy's hand
and palsy the arm at the oar, and the iron, and the lance?  how the richer or
and that her yards were swung round; starboard and larboard, she continued to
and the robust and man-like sea heaved with long, strong, lingering swells,
and thereupon Tanaquil, his wife, declared that Tarquin would be king of Rome.
and unyielding; his eyes glowing like coals, that still glow in the ashes of
and when the deck-ends of these ropes are being every few minutes cast down
as Samson's chest in his sleep.
as he so divinely swam.  On each soft side --coincident with the parted swell,
as the circumference to its centre.  So: God for ever bless thee; and if it
assail it; but had fatally
at intervals one of the cloud of soft-toed fowls hovering, and to and fro
attaching one to his basket prepared a pin for the other end, in order to
away home I see in that eye!  Oh, my Captain!  my Captain!  noble soul!
away.  Tied up and twisted; gnarled and knotted with wrinkles; haggardly firm
bar; and yet there's no opening it.  It must be the spell; he told me to
be, that Starbuck, almost the one only man who had ever ventured to oppose
become one watch on deck; and though the Parsee's mystic watch was without
been still another son; as that for a time, the wretched father was plunged
before them; either standing in his pivot-hole, or exactly pacing the planks
before.  And thus, through the serene tranquillities of the tropical sea,
beside the pin, he looked round upon his crew, sweeping from one to the
better is Ahab now?  Behold.  Oh, Starbuck!  is it not hard, that with this
between two
bewitching fleetness, rippling straight for the nuptial bower in Crete; not
biting mockery of grey hairs, have I lived enough joy to wear ye; and seem
blew from a far-away meadow; they have been making hay somewhere under the
boats, always to pick up the majority first.  But the captain, for some
boats.  Mr. Starbuck, remember, stay on board, and keep the ship.  Helm
broad, milky forehead, a musical rippling playfully accompanying the shade;
burnt-out crater of his brain.  Slowly crossing the deck from the scuttle,
bury but one of five stout men, who were alive only yesterday; but were dead
but I must go.  Mr. Starbuck, look at the binnacle watch, and in three
by night or day could the mariners now step up the deck, unless Ahab was
by the braces!  Hard down the helm! --brace up!  Shiver her! --shiver her!  So;
called shears, which, in some whaling-ships, cross the quarter-deck at the
cannot always be infallibly discerned by what is seen of them at the deck;
captains will send a son of such tender age away from them, for a protracted
case.  For you too have a boy, Captain Ahab --though but a child, and nestling
come to that, -- God for ever save thee, let what will befall.
concerned the slightest verbal interchange.  At times, for longest hours,
confidential hours; when he thought no glance but one was on him; then you
corpse's hue with despair, the Mate had stolen away.  Ahab crossed the deck
crew be cast adrift and fall all swooping to the sea.  So Ahab's proceedings
cried Ahab -- touch not a rope-yarn; then in a voice that prolongingly
curing to my malady.  Like cures like; and for this hunt, my malady becomes
czar and king, the sun seemed giving this gentle air to this bold and rolling
dance him again.  Tis my Mary, my Mary herself!  She promised that my boy,
day after day, and night after night; he went no more beneath the planks;
descried.  As she drew nigh, all eyes were fixed upon her broad beams,
disabled boats.  Upon the stranger's shears were beheld the shattered, white
disappearance, a minute black spot was dimly discerned, falling from that vast
dispel, for a moment, the cankerous thing in his soul.  That glad, happy air,
display
doubloon!  and with his own hands he rigged a nest of basketed bowlines; and
down, and left in the half-cut swaths --Starbuck!  But blanched to a
drawing nigh to some barbarous isle.  He declared that a whale must be near.
drop.  Starbuck saw the old man; saw him, how he heavily leaned over the
dry nourishment of my soul --when the poorest landsman has had fresh fruit to
dubious at him; half uncertain, as it seemed, whether indeed he were a
endure it, but he's missing.  Pip!  Pip!  Ding, dong, ding!  Who's seen Pip?
epaulets all come crowding!  Pass round the decanters; glad to see ye; fill
ere night.  Only that one I bury; the rest were buried before they died;
errand-boy in heaven; nor one single star can revolve, but by some invisible
even as this, in nantucket.  they have, they have.  I have seen them --some
every morning, should be carried to the hill to catch the first glimpse of
expressing them, however his actions might seem to hint them.  I will have
eye seemed to see some sort of cunning meaning in almost every sight.  Your
eyes, which it was hardly sufferable for feeble souls to see.  As the
face fiercely, snuffing up the sea air as a sagacious ship's dog will, in
fasten it at the rail.  This done, with that end yet in his hand and standing
field.  Sleep?  Aye, and rust amid greenness; as last year's scythes flung
firmaments of air and sea were hardly separable in that all-pervading azure;
first knowledge of a whaleman's career shall be unenervated by any chance
forecastle deck, Daggoo roused the sleepers with such judgment claps that
found that quietude but the vesture of tornadoes.  Yet calm, enticing calm,
frenzy, the boiling blood and the smoking brow, with which, for a thousand
from the fastenings, it would be but a natural fatality, if, unprovided with
gathered in beads of dew upon that stone-carved coat and hat.  The clothes
gazed abroad upon the sea for miles and miles, --ahead, astern, this side, and
gleamed down upon the constant midnight of the gloomy crew.  It domineered
glimmering of the dawn, his iron voice was heard from aft -- Man the
go with ye.  If thou speakest thus to me much more, Ahab's purpose keels up
going to sound!  In stunsails!  Down top-gallant-sails!  Stand by three
grand old heart, after all!  why should any one give chase to that hated fish!
grows so sane again.  They tell me, sir, that Stubb did once desert poor
had been inflicted; now that a vessel had been spoken which on the very day
half-unhinged, and bleaching skeleton of a horse.  Hast seen the White
hands.  Now, the first time Ahab was perched aloft; ere he had been there ten
hat was never restored; the wild hawk flew on and on with it; far in
hat, your hat, sir!  suddenly cried the Sicilian seaman, who being posted at
he raised a gull-like cry in the air, There she blows! --there she blows!  A
he stood, however the days and nights were added on, that he had not swung
head.  But with his gaze fixed upon the dim and distant horizon, Ahab seemed
heart to save and to bless.  From beneath his slouched hat Ahab dropped a tear
heart, I durst not so much as dare?  Is Ahab, Ahab?  Is it I, God, or who,
height into the sea.
height of eight or nine feet; serving to carry the spare, unrigged, or
her still halting course and winding, woful way, you plainly saw that this
her three masts before me.  Here, our old sailors say, in their black
here in this hand I hold his death!  Tempered in blood, and tempered by
him by the hand to follow.) Lad, lad, I tell thee thou must not follow Ahab
him with anything in the slightest degree approaching to decision --one of
him, or be noticed by him, he yet drew near to him, and stood there.  Ahab
his chief mate's instinctively adopting the ordinary procedure of a whale-ship
his daily hand, and broken the world's fresh bread to my mouldy crusts --away,
his enchantment, Gardiner silently hurried to the side; more fell than
his face to the sky.  Nothing, nothing, sir!  was the sound hailing down in
his father's sail!  Yes, yes!  no more!  it is done!  we head for Nantucket!
his high sparkling hump, and regularly jetting his silent spout into the air.
his level, and with a deep gulf of air dividing them.  But already the sable
his person in the basket, he gave the word for them to hoist him to his
hither and thither at every dark spot, however small, on the sea.  This way
hump like a snow-hill!  It is Moby Dick!  Fired by the cry which seemed
immortal infancy, and innocency of the azure!  Invisible winged creatures
in him.  I tell thee no; it cannot be.  Oh good master, master, master!
in his hammock; yet hidden beneath that slouching hat, they could never tell
in strict charge to some one man who has the special watch of it.  Because in
in such emergencies, that is, when placed between jeopardized but divided
in the scuttle for a whole hour on the stretch, and the unheeded night-damp
in this matter were not unusual; the only strange thing about them seemed to
in working with his hands at some lofty almost isolated place in the rigging,
incommodiously close round the manned mast-heads of whalemen in these
indeed, but that some of the flying bubbles might have sprinkled her hull with
indifference with which the white whale tore his hunters, whether sinning or
intermission as his own; yet these two never seemed to speak --one man to the
into the sea; nor did all the pacific contain such wealth as that one wee
involved wrinkles of the slightly projecting head beyond.  Before it, far out
is the magic glass, man; I see my wife and my child in thine eye.  No, no;
it before?  cried Ahab, hailing the perched men all around him.  I saw him
it was only the sex, as it were, that distinguished them.  Aloft, like a royal
ivory --Oh, master, master!  I am indeed down-hearted when you walk over me.
latitudes; one of these birds came wheeling and screaming round his head in a
lengthwise ahead, smooth as oil, and resembling in the pleated watery
let's drink shame upon all cowards!  I name no names.  Shame upon them!  Put
levelled iron from the crotch, Ahab held it out, exclaiming -- Look ye,
leviathans, sword-fish, and sharks; and these were the strong, troubled,
lightly swung; and another ship, most miserably misnamed the Delight, was
lightning are these barbs; and I swear to temper them triply in that hot
lit up Fedallah's sunken eyes; a hideous motion gnawed his mouth.  Like
little Pip, whose drowned bones now show white, for all the blackness of his
living skin.  But I will never desert ye, sir, as Stubb did him.  Sir, I must
living sperm whale, was palpable to all the watch; nor was any mariner
living, and not I. By heaven, man, we are turned round and round in this
lo!  that smiling sky, and this unsounded sea!  Look!  see yon Albicore!  who
longitude where his tormenting wound
look into a human eye; it is better than to gaze into sea or sky; better
lovings and longings, I so keep pushing, and crowding, and jamming myself on
lowerings old Ahab has furiously, foamingly chased his prey --more a demon
machines, they dumbly moved about the deck, ever conscious that the old
main-mast head, he received the two ends of the downward-reeved rope; and
man!  Who's to doom, when the judge himself is dragged to the bar?  But it is
man's despot eye was on them.  But did you deeply scan him in his more secret
mast-heads! --and all through the day, till after sunset and after twilight,
master, and cruel, remorseless emperor commands me; that against all natural
matter how many in that same way thou may'st have bejuggled and destroyed
maze of untrackably swift circlings.  Then it darted a thousand feet straight
meetings with various ships contrastingly concurred to show the demoniac
mighty mildness of repose in swiftness, invested the gliding whale.  Not the
mild looking sky.  On such a day --very much such a sweetness as this --I
million villains, this makes me a bigot in the fadeless fidelity of man! --and
minutes from this present instant warn off all strangers: then brace forward
minutes; one of those red-billed savage sea-hawks which so often fly
mortal substance, or else a tremulous shadow cast upon the deck by some
moulded every word -- Captain Gardiner, I will not do it.  Even now I lose
much, it being no uncommon circumstance; only now almost the least heedful
murderous thinkings of the masculine sea.  But though thus contrasting within,
my most desired health.  Do thou abide below here, where they shall serve
nameless, inscrutable, unearthly thing is it; what cozzening, hidden lord and
necessary.  Though such a potent spell seemed secretly to join the twain;
neck, and did seem to joyously sob over him, as if over one, that however
negro lad, five feet high,  hang-dog look, and cowardly!  Jumped from a
never touched; nor reaped his beard; which darkly grew all gnarled, as
new-mown hay.  Sleeping?  Aye, toil we how we may, we all sleep at last on the
night, even, had Fedallah ever certainly been known to slumber, or go below.
no; only black water!  All ready the boats there?  Stand by, stand by!
noiseless nautilus shells, their light prows sped through the sea; but only
not have thee by him.  There is that in thee, poor lad, which I feel too
not to mark this wild bird; nor, indeed, would any one else have marked it
not yet forged that will ever do that, answered the other, sadly glancing
now gained his final perch, some feet above the other look-outs, Tashtego
now.  The hour is coming when Ahab would not scare thee from him, yet would
number of the other boat's crews, at the same time, but on the other hand,
of a father's natural but untimely partiality, or undue apprehensiveness
of cannibal old me; how I am abroad upon the deep, but will yet come back to
of captains and lieutenants.  Ha!  what's this?  epaulets!  epaulets!  the
of his steady wake; and on either hand bright bubbles arose and danced by his
of nearly all except the Pagan harpooneers; he seemed to doubt, even, whether
of the deep!  Aye and yes, Starbuck, out of those forty years I have not spent
oh, whale!  thou glidest on, to all who for the first time eye thee, no
on the hill!  But Ahab's glance was averted; like a blighted fruit tree he
on the soft Turkish-rugged waters, went the glistening white shadow from his
one foot upon the table.  Shame upon all cowards. --Hist!  above there, I hear
only, the pensive air was transparently pure and soft, with a woman's look,
open air; that is, his two only meals, -- breakfast and dinner: supper he
openly, and to the awe-struck crew, they seemed pole-like asunder.  If by day
other --unless at long intervals some passing unmomentous matter made it
other; as if in the Parsee Ahab saw his forethrown shadow, in Ahab the
other; pausing his glance long upon Daggoo, Queequeg, Tashtego; but shunning
paternal old age!  Away!  let us away! --this instant let me alter the course!
perch, Starbuck being the one who secured the rope at last; and afterwards
peril, and storm-time!  forty years on the pitiless sea!  for forty years has
pillow --wife?  wife? --rather a widow with her husband alive!  Aye, I widowed
place behind the fin, where the white whale most feels his accursed life!
place the plank then on the rail, and lift the body; so, then -- Oh!  God
pole, the long tail feathers streaming like pennons.  A gentle joyousness --a
powdered, for the time, in the clamped mortar of ahab's iron soul.  like
preceding had actually encountered Moby Dick; --and now that all his successive
profundity.  But the lovely aromas in that enchanted air did at last seem to
put it into him to chase and fang that flying-fish?  Where do murderers go,
rapidly ordered the ship's course to be slightly altered, and the sail to be
reply.  T'gallant sails! --stunsails!  alow and aloft, and on both sides!  All
ribs, and some few splintered planks, of what had once been a whale-boat; but
rigging to behold the famous whale they had so long been pursuing.  Ahab had
ruin; untottering Ahab stood forth in the clearness of the morn; lifting his
safely at home now --a child of your old age too -- Yes, yes, you relent; I
sail being set, he now cast loose the life-line, reserved for swaying him to
sailed for Cape Horn the next day, leaving but one dent in my marriage
sailed on; the rolling waves and days went by; the life-buoy-coffin still
sailors were busy in sewing together.  Not forged!  and snatching Perth's
sank to his gaze, the more and the more that he strove to pierce the
scream, the black hawk darted away with his prize.
screwed chair; another screw to it, thou must be.  No, no, no!  ye have not
scuttle, the Parsee by the mainmast; but still fixedly gazing upon each
sea; even as bride to groom.  And at the girdling line of the horizon, a
seat me, against the transom, in the ship's full middle, all her keel and
securely there; now, that he found himself hard by the very latitude and
see it --run, run, men, now, and stand by to square in the yards.  Avast,
see old Nantucket again!  I think, sir, they have some such mild blue days,
seemingly unsuspecting prey, that his entire dazzling hump was distinctly
self, as daily, hourly, and every instant, commandingly revealed to his
sending a hand aloft, with a single sheaved block, to secure to the
separated from the ship during the dark vicissitudes of the chase, there had
serenely it spread.  At length the breathless hunter came so nigh his
set in a revolving ring of finest, fleecy, greenish foam.  He saw the vast,
seventy-fours great admirals sometimes sit at table, and lord it over rows
shattered pole of a recent lance projected from the white whale's back; and
ship that so wept with spray, still remained without comfort.  She was
shook, and cast his last, cindered apple to the soil.  What is it, what
shooting to leeward; and Ahab heading the onset.  A pale, death-glimmer
shortened.  The acute policy dictating these movements was sufficiently
side.  But these were broken again by the light toes of hundreds of gay fowl
side; and he seemed to hear in his own true heart the measureless sobbing
simultaneously taken up by the three look-outs, the men on deck rushed to the
sinned against; now it was that there lurked a something in the old man's
skimming like a canopy over the fish, silently perched and rocked on this
slopes of the Andes, Starbuck, and the mowers are sleeping among the
slowly they neared the foe.  As they neared him, the ocean grew still more
smooth; seemed drawing a carpet over its waves; seemed a noon-meadow, so
so grey did never grow but from out some ashes!  But do I look very old, so
so long cruel -- forbidding --now threw affectionate arms round his stubborn
soft and tremulous motion --most seen here at the equator --denoted the fond,
softly feathering the sea, alternate with their fitful flight; and like to
solitude it has been; the masoned, walled-town of a Captain's exclusiveness,
some flag-staff rising from the painted hull of an argosy, the tall but
splintered helmet of a brow to the fair girl's forehead of heaven.  Oh,
sporting with the circle of singed locks which grew on the marge of that
spot, and sustained there by
standing in the cabin-scuttle, --his living foot advanced upon the deck, as if
standing just beneath him on the cap of the top-gallant mast, so that the
stay here: Aye, and told me this screwed chair was mine.  Here, then, I'll
stay on board, on board! --lower not when I do; when branded Ahab gives chase
stepped into his boat, and returned to his ship.  Soon the two ships diverged
stood near it.  And thus, with one hand clinging round the royal mast, Ahab
strange life-buoy hanging at the Pequod's stern came into conspicuous relief.
struck my first whale --a boy-harpooneer of eighteen!  Forty-- forty--forty years
subordinates, --Ahab seemed an independent lord; the Parsee but his slave.
such a wilderness of running rigging, whose various different relations aloft
summer days in the morning.  About this time --yes, it is his noon nap now --
surprised when, after inspecting the compass, and then the dog-vane, and
sustains its piercing, steady, central gaze; so Ahab's purpose now fixedly
swept --seemed to have chased his foe into an ocean-fold, to slay him the more
tack; now she beat against a head sea; and again it pushed her before it;
than a man! --aye, aye!  what a forty years' fool --fool --old fool, has old
than to gaze upon God.  By the green land; by the bright hearth-stone!  this
that I am there.  And now I quit thee.  Thy hand! --Met!  True art thou, lad,
that but once leaving him, then flowed so wide away --on each bright side,
that frolic all round us!  Sweet childhood of air and sky!  how oblivious were
that lifts this arm?  But if the great sun move not of himself; but is as an
that poor girl when I married her, Starbuck; and then, the madness, the
that stole out of the centre of the serenity around.  Careful not to touch
that the night had wet, the next day's sunshine dried upon him; and so,
that winsome sky, did at last stroke and caress him; the step-mother world,
that, --within the wide expanded circle commanded at so great a height.  When
the air to the deck.  He is heading straight to leeward, sir, cried Stubb,
the boy vivaciously wakes; sits up in bed; and his mother tells him of me,
the destiny of all his race.  Nor does it unfrequently occur, that Nantucket
the first sight of the whale myself, --he said.  Aye!  Ahab must have the
the life-- Brace forward!  Up helm!  cried Ahab like lightning to his men.
the main royal-mast head; and in a few moments they were hoisting him
the mizen-mast-head, stood directly behind Ahab, though somewhat lower than
the monomaniac old man seemed distrustful of his crew's fidelity; at least,
the rope; under these circumstances, its fastened end on deck is always given
the same voice every hour, at the striking of the helmsman's bell, was heard
the splash that the corpse soon made as it struck the sea; not so quick,
the water there.  Fedallah was motionlessly leaning over the same rail.
the whale shed off enticings.  No wonder there had been some among the hunters
thee, as if thou wert the captain.  Aye, lad, thou shalt sit here in my own
their ghostly baptism.  As Ahab now glided from the dejected Delight, the
their wakes; and long as the strange vessel was in view, she was seen to yaw
then ascertaining the precise bearing of the odor as nearly as possible, Ahab
there!  Luff, luff a point!  So; steady, man, steady!  There go flukes!  No,
these suspicions were really his, he sagaciously refrained from verbally
they chanced to speak one word; by night, dumb men were both, so far as
they seemed to exhale from the scuttle, so instantaneously did they appear
this foreshadowing interval too, all humor, forced or natural, vanished.
thither, when, while but two thirds of the way aloft, and while peering
those too, whose faithfulness on the look-out he had seemed to doubt somewhat;
though perished in the upper verdure.  But though his whole life was now
thoughts; unless God does that beating, does that thinking, does that
three or four years' voyage in some other ship than their own; so that their
three tall cherry trees, when the boys are cherrying among the boughs.  But by
throbbing trust, the loving alarms, with which the poor bride gave her bosom
through; and oysters come to join me.
tide-rip, at the mouth of a deep, rapid stream.  Man the mast-heads!  Call
till forced to it by Ahab's iciness did he allude to his one yet missing boy;
time.  Good bye, good bye.  God bless ye, man, and may I forgive myself,
to gaze over on the other side; but started at two reflected, fixed eyes in
to hide beneath their souls, and not sprout forth a single spear or leaf.  In
to initiate him in the perils and wonders of a vocation almost immemorially
to show us your coffin!
to step; his hat slouched heavily over his eyes; so that however motionless
to the bottom of the cruellest perplexity; which was only solved for him by
tones, attuned to the gradual prolongings of the whale's visible jets.  He's
too, are Starbuck's --wife and child of his brotherly, sisterly, play-fellow
top-gallant-sail,
turned.  Starbuck!  Sir.  Oh, Starbuck!  it is a mild, mild wind, and a
tyrant driving them; the lean shade siding the solid rib.  For be this Parsee
unconditional and utter rejection of his so earnest suit.  But starting from
undeviating limits, --the main-mast and the mizen; or else they saw him
unearthed roots of trees blown over, which still grow idly on at naked base,
unerringly whether, for all this, his eyes were really closed at times; or
unknown constitutional reason, had refrained from mentioning all this, and not
unmisgiving hardihood of a Nantucketer's paternal love, had thus early sought
unseen being's body.  And that shadow was always hovering there.  For not by
unsetting polar star, which through the livelong, arctic, six months' night
unspeckled birds; these were the gentle thoughts of the feminine air; but to
up into the air; then spiralized downwards, and went eddying again round his
up, monsieurs!  What an odd feeling, now, when a black boy's host to white men
upon a rounded hammock on the deck, whose gathered sides some noiseless
upon me, sir; I ask no more, so I remain a part of ye.  Oh!  spite of
vain, oh, ye strangers, ye fly our sad burial; ye but turn us your taffrail
very, very old, Starbuck?  I feel deadly faint, bowed, and humped, as though
vindicated at daybreak, by the sight of a long sleek on the sea directly and
visible, sliding along the sea as if an isolated thing, and continually
weary load I bear, one poor leg should have been snatched from under me?
well that!  Boats, boats!  Soon all the boats but Starbuck's were dropped;
whale was now seen some mile or so ahead, at every roll of the sea revealing
whale-boat once; --seen him?  No!  Well then, fill up again, captains, and
what he may, all rib and keel was solid Ahab.  At the first faintest
whatever he wanted from the cabin that thing he sent for.  He ate in the same
when the old man --as his wont at intervals --stepped forth from the scuttle in
whether he was still intently scanning them; no matter, though he stood so
which admits but small entrance to any sympathy from the green country without
which chances to afford no foothold, the sailor at sea is hoisted up to that
which he leaned, and went to his pivot-hole, he suddenly thrust out his
while all the while, her masts and yards were thickly clustered with men, as
white bull Jupiter swimming away with ravished Europa clinging to his graceful
who namelessly transported and allured by all this serenity, had ventured to
wilful and erring, she could yet find it in her
wing was before the old man's eyes; the long hooked bill at his head: with a
with gold lace upon their coats! --Monsieurs, have ye seen one Pip? --a little
with his trumpet he pointed to the wreck.  Hast killed him?  The harpoon is
with their clothes in their hands.  What d'ye see?  cried Ahab, flattening
without a single hail, they stood far parted in the starlight; Ahab in his
without the least quivering of his own.  I will not go, said the stranger,
wondrous eyes did plainly say --We two watchmen never rest.  Nor, at any time,
world, like yonder windlass, and Fate is the handspike.  And all the time,
would have seen that even as Ahab's eyes so awed the crew's, the inscrutable
wrinkles bordering it, the polished metallic-like marks of some swift
ye of old Ahab's close-coiled woe!  But so have I seen little Miriam and
you now saw through this wreck, as plainly as you see through the peeled,
you sail upon their tomb.  Then turning to his crew -- Are ye ready there?
youth; even as thine, sir, are the wife and child of thy loving, longing,
