


























    
     During the most violent shocks of the
     Lord, that the winds that come from heaven should be so unmannerly!  This is
     No, no, it wasn't; I said the corpusants have mercy on us all; and I hope
     Nor has this thy whale sunwards turned his dying head, and then gone round
     Not seldom in this life, when, on the
     Stubb and Flask
     The
     The anchors are working, sir.  Shall I get them inboard?  Strike nothing,
     The four whales slain that evening
     The season for the Line at length drew
     Warmest climes but nurse the cruellest
     Well, then, did I believe all ye say, oh my pilot!  I have here two pledges
     Yes, yes, round the Cape of Good Hope is the shortest way to Nantucket,
     a spar, a number of the seamen, arrested by the glare, now cohered
     but the sea will have its way.  Stubb, for one, can't fight it.  You see, Mr.
     but what after all canst thou do, but tell the poor, pitiful point, where
     is to run for Moby Dick?  the very course he swung to this day noon?  now
     man!  Ahab's harpoon, the one forged at Perth's fire, remained firmly lashed
     markest thou not that the gale comes from the eastward, the very course Ahab
     the crimson fight were done: and floating in the lovely sunset sea and sky,
     vain!  In vain, oh whale, dost thou seek intercedings with yon
     was kneeling beneath him on the ship's deck, and with face thrown up like
     wind!  oh-he-yo, cheerly, men!  the crew singing for joy, that so
     with the Pequod's; at almost every shock the helmsman had not failed to
-- Hemp only can kill thee.  The gallows, ye mean. --I am immortal then, on
--a hearse and its plumes floating over the ocean with the waves for the
.. < chapter cxix 19  THE CANDLES >
.. < chapter cxvi 2  THE DYING WHALE >
.. < chapter cxvii 23  THE WHALE WATCH >
.. < chapter cxviii 2  THE QUADRANT >
.. < chapter cxx 10  THE DECK TOWARDS THE END OF THE FIRST NIGHT WATCH >
.. < chapter cxxi 2  MIDNIGHT--THE FORECASTLE BULWARKS >
.. < chapter cxxii 2  MIDNIGHT ALOFT--THUNDER AND LIGHTNING >
.. < chapter cxxiii 10  THE MUSKET >
.. <p 490 >
.. <p 491 >
.. <p 491 >
.. <p 492 >
.. <p 493 >
.. <p 494 >
.. <p 495 >
.. <p 495 >
.. <p 496 >
.. <p 497 >
.. <p 498 >
.. <p 499 >
.. <p 500 >
.. <p 501 >
.. <p 502 >
.. <p 502 >
.. <p 503 >
.. <p 504 >
.. <p 505 >
.. <p 505 >
.. <p 506 >
Ahab standing by the helm.  Starbuck approaching him.  We must send down the
Ahab's, was eyeing the same sun with him; only the lids of his eyes half
Ahab, leaning over the taffrail, eyed the homeward-bound craft, he took from
Commodores, and Captains; the world brags of thee, of thy cunning and might;
East-south-east --which he was to steer, if practicable, was once more given
Flask.  But hark, again, and I'll answer ye the other thing.  First take your
Forward there!  Set all sail, and keep her to the wind!  And thus, while the
Hand me those main-mast links there; I would fain feel this pulse, and let
Hear me, then: I take that mast-head flame we saw for a sign of good luck;
Holding by a shroud, Starbuck was standing on the quarter-deck; at every
I own thy speechless, placeless power; but to the last gasp of my earthquake
I'll contribute to raise rods on the Himmalehs and Andes, that all the world
Instantly the yards were squared, to the lively song of Ho!  the fair
Main-top-sail yard. --Tashtego passing new lashings around it.  Um, um, um.
Manilla isles, the Spanish land-breeze, wantonly turned sailor, had gone to
Marine Insurance companies have extra guarantees?  Here are hydrants,
Moby Dick?  This instant thou must be eyeing him.  These eyes of mine look
Now, as the lightning rod to a spire on shore is intended to carry off the
Oh, high aspiring, rainbowed jet! --that one strivest, this one jettest all in
Queequeg's tattooing burned like Satanic blue flames on his body.  The tableau
Skies the most effulgent but basket the deadliest thunders: gorgeous Cuba
Some hours after midnight, the Typhoon abated so much, that through the
Starbuck, a wave has such a great long start before it leaps, all round the
Starbuck, going forward, pushed against some one.  It was Stubb.  What
Stop that thunder!  Plenty too much thunder up here.  What's the use of
Stubb by the shoulder, and pointing his hand towards the weather bow,
That unblinkingly vivid Japanese sun seems the blazing focus of the glassy
The parted mouth of Tashtego revealed his shark-white teeth, which strangely
The waif-pole was thrust upright into the dead whale's spout-hole; and the
Then turning --the last link held fast in his left hand, he put his foot upon
Thou canst blind; but I can then grope.  Thou canst consume; but I can then
Thunder!  said Ahab, groping his way along the bulwarks to his pivot-hole;
Typhoon which had struck her directly ahead.  When darkness came on, sky and
Typhoon, the man at the Pequod's jaw-bone tiller had several times been
What a hold they have, too!  I wonder, Flask, whether the world is anchored
What are you talking about, then?  Not one ship in a hundred carries rods,
[Sudden, repeated flashes of lightning; the nine flames leap lengthwise to
a nasty night, lad.
according to its vicissitudes.  But as he was now bringing the ship as near
ache; my whole beaten brain seems as beheaded, and rolling on some stunning
adrift from the spars, and went eddying away to leeward, like the feathers
aft --the shivered remnants of the jib and fore and main-top-sails were cut
again, without a lesson to me.  Oh, trebly hooped and welded hip of power!
ago is it since you said the very contrary?  Didn't you once say that whatever
all hum of human weal or woe; in these most candid and impartial seas; where
all their pains seemed naught.  Though lifted to the very top of the cranes,
all waned at last with the pallidness aloft; and once more the Pequod and
all!  To sailors, oaths are household words; they will swear in the trance
all-quickening sun, that only calls forth life, but gives it not again.  Yet
almost seemed as if far over from the deep green convent valleys of the
aloft, few words were heard from the enchanted crew; who in one thick
aloud, Thou art a full ship and homeward bound, thou sayest; well, then,
altar.  Blast the boat!  let it go!  cried Stubb at this instant, as a
an albatross, which sometimes are cast to the winds when that storm-tossed
and Ahab, --aye, man, and all of us, --were in no more danger then, in my poor
and body, lungs and life, old Ahab is bound.  And that ye may know to what
and destroy thee!  As the frantic old man thus spoke and thus trampled with
and invoking brow, with his last dying motions.  He too worships fire; most
and on sea!  Both were silent again, as one man.  The grey dawn came on, and
and stir nothing, but lash everything.  The wind rises, but it has not got
and turns him to it, --how slowly, but how steadfastly, his homage-rendering
anybody else, never mind how foolish?  Here!  cried Starbuck, seizing
anywhere; if she is, she swings with an uncommon long cable, though.  There,
apprise Captain Ahab of the circumstance.  Ere knocking at his state-room, he
are none; the horizon floats; and this nakedness of unrelieved radiance is
art but my fiery father; my sweet mother, I know not.  Oh, cruel!  what hast
as the insufferable splendors of God's throne.  Well that Ahab's quadrant
astrological-looking instrument placed to his eye, he remained in that posture
at length remain but one little heap of ashes!  Aye, cried Stubb, but
at your coat collar.  Don't you see, then, that for these extra risks the
awestruck by the aspect of their commander, the seamen clustered together on
be ashes.  Take the homage of these poor eyes, and shutter-hands.  I would
be sensible, Flask?  it's easy to be sensible; why don't ye, then?  any man
be, thou leapest out of darkness; but I am darkness leaping out of light,
because of all this, the lower parts of a ship's
been woven into the shrouds and the cordage.  While this pallidness was burning
before, catch somewhat of the rushing breeze, and joyfully feel our bagging
beginning, hence callest thyself unbegun.  I know that of me, which thou
beheld with what seemed redoubled supernaturalness in their pallor.  The
beyond thee, thou clear spirit, to whom all thy eternity is but time, all
big generous hands they are, to be sure.  These are your iron fists, hey?
billows are my foster-brothers!
billows have still rolled on speechless and unspoken to, as stars that shine
bird is on the wing.  The three corresponding new sails were now bent and
black, glossy back, and far out upon the
boat that had killed it lay by its side all night; and that boat was Ahab's.
boat's bottom at the stern, and left it again, all dripping through like a
bones hast builded thy separate throne somewhere in the heart of these
bowels for a laugh?  And look ye, Mr. Starbuck --but it's too dark to look.
braces!  Up helm! --square in!  In an instant the yards swung round; and as
breath he extinguished the flame.  As in the hurricane that sweeps the plain,
breeze --however reluctantly and gloomily, --than he mechanically went below to
burning in that sulphurous air, like three gigantic wax tapers before an
but a tossed shuttle-cock to the blast, it is by no means uncommon to see
but scorches him, as these old eyes are even now scorched with thy light, O
but suddenly finding his path made plain to him by elbowed lances of fire.
but the sea that had stove its bottom had caused the loose leather sheath to
but you will never pound into me what you were just now saying.  And how long
call me an empty ship, and outward-bound.  So go thy ways, and I will mine.
can follow, thou must still appear to me, to pilot me still? --Was it not so?
candles --that's the good promise we saw.  At that moment Starbuck caught
cards into these old hands of mine; swears that I must play them, and no
carry to each mast, is intended to conduct it into the water.  But as this
centrally fixed on the nailed doubloon; impatient for the order to point the
charcoal.  Well, well; I heard Ahab mutter, "Here some one thrusts these
cluster stood on the forecastle, all their eyes gleaming in that pale
cocked hats; the cocks form gable-end eave-troughs, Flask.  No more
conductor must descend to considerable depth, that its end may avoid all
contact with the hull; and as moreover, if kept constantly towing there, it
corpusants have mercy on us all, cried Stubb, again.  At the base of the
crew instantly ran to the braces --though not a sail was left aloft.  For the
cried Ahab; let's have fair play here, though we be the weaker side.  Yet
cried Starbuck, let the Typhoon sing, and strike his harp here in our
cried Starbuck.  The corpusants!  the corpusants!  All the yard-arms were
crouching in the bow, sat watching the sharks, that spectrally played round
dashing high up against the reeling ship's high tetering side, stove in the
day, the Pequod was torn of her canvas, and bare-poled was left to fight a
dead-reckoning, by log and by line; these shall conduct me, and show me my
deck; but all their eyes upcast.  Aye, aye, men!  cried Ahab.  Look up at
deeper gloom, Ahab, who had sterned off from the whale, sat intently
defiance.  To neither love nor reverence wilt thou be kind; and e'en for hate
did run from him in a terror of dismay.
die it!
directing the men in the higher hoisting and firmer lashing of the boats.  But
dost thou, darker half, rock me with a prouder, if a darker faith.  All thy
down a beaver; so.  Halloa!  whew!  there goes my tarpaulin overboard; Lord,
drive us towards home.  Yonder, to windward, all is blackness of doom; but
drop off; and from the keen steel barb there now came a levelled flame of
dumbest dust.  Old man of oceans!  of all this fiery life of thine, what will
earth, yet suckled by the sea; though hill and valley mothered me, ye
encountering the gay Bachelor, whales were seen and four were slain; and one
end.  Petrified by his aspect, and still more shrinking from the fiery dart
ere thou couldst die on this voyage, two hearses must verily be seen by thee
erect before the lofty tri-pointed trinity of flames.  Oh!  thou clear spirit
evening, somehow to Ahab conveyed a wondrousness unknown before.  He turns
every soul on her decks were wrapped in a pall.  A moment or two passed, when
eyes do dimly see it.  Oh, thou foundling fire, thou hermit immemorial, thou
face, saw the Parsee; and hooped round by the gloom of the night they seemed
faith; but see!  no sooner dead, than death whirls round the corpse, and it
faithful, broad, baronial vassal of the sun! --Oh that these too-favoring eyes
fangs: the tiger of Bengal crouches in spiced groves of ceaseless verdure.
fatalistic despair that seemed meant for himself --these passed over the mute,
filled with Nantucket soundings.
find it rather hard.  Yes, when a fellow's soaked through, it's hard to be
finger has been laid on the ship; when his mene, mene, Tekel Upharsin has
fire.  So, swinging his seated form to the roll of the ship, and with his
firmament.  Curse thee, thou quadrant!  dashing it to the deck, no longer
flash of the lightning glancing aloft, to see what additional disaster might
flip only foamin'; When he stirs in the spicin', -- Such a funny, sporty,
following the flashes, a voice was heard at his side; and almost at the same
for some moments to catch the precise instant when the sun should gain its
for those masts are rooted in a hold that is going to be chock a' block with
from the topsail-yard-arms, when most they teter over to a seething sea; but
fun: so the old song says; --( sings.) Oh!  jolly is the gale, And a joker
gamy, jesty, joky, hoky-poky lad, is the Ocean, oh!  Thunder splits the
gleamed as if they too
go on a better voyage than this.  Overhearing Starbuck, the panic-stricken
grave, lingering glances towards the receding Bachelor; but the Bachelor's
ground.  Oh, oh!  Yet blindfold, yet will I talk to thee.  Light though thou
had been tipped by corpusants; while lit up by the preternatural light,
had died wide apart; one, far to windward; one, less distant, to leeward;
half-stranded.  Shall I strike it, sir?  Strike nothing; lash it.  If I had
hammer that knot down, and we've done.  So; next to touching land, lighting
hanging.  No, Stubb; you may pound that knot there as much as you please,
harm can come to the holder of the rod, unless the mast is first struck?
haughty agony, i read my sire.  leap!  leap up, and lick the sky!  I leap
have befallen the intricate hamper there; while Stubb and Flask were
have sat before the dense coal fire and watched it all aglow, full of its
have to meet it, is just across the deck here.  But never mind; it's all in
he is wont to stand --his stand-point is stove, man!  Now jump overboard, and
head, and so expiring --that strange spectacle, beheld of such a placid
heads some other way. -- Oh, thou dark Hindoo half of nature, who of drowned
hearses?  Have I not said, old man, that neither hearse nor coffin can be
her course as possible, watching the compass meanwhile, lo!  a good sign!
high noon; and Ahab, seated in the bows of his high-hoisted boat, was about
his live and dead feet, a sneering triumph that seemed meant for Ahab, and a
his pocket a small vial of sand, and then looking from the ship to the vial,
homeward-bound.  How wondrous familiar is a fool!  muttered Ahab; then
hooded their orbs, and his wild face was subdued to an earthly
humming silence to reign there, though it was hooped round by all the roar of
immediately shifting his tone, he cried -- The corpusants have mercy on us
immediately, and at any one of the twenty-four hours, any decided change in
in Ahab's front, but with his head bowed away from him; while near by, from
in all my voyagings, seldom have I heard a common oath when God's burning
in its conspicuous crotch, so that it projected beyond his whale-boat's bow;
in that Japanese sea, the days in summer are as freshets of effulgences.
in this world but to cut my throat.  And when that's done, ten to one I sing
instant a volley of thunder peals rolled overhead.  Who's there?  Old
insultest the sun!  Science!  Curse thee, thou vain toy; and cursed be all
into the very eye that is even now beholding him; aye, and into the eye that
involuntarily paused before it a moment.  The cabin lamp --taking long swings
is even now equally beholding the objects on the unknown, thither side of
is the whale, A' flourishin' his tail, -- Such a funny, sporty, gamy, jesty,
it.  In compliance with the standing order of his commander -- to report
it; and so the two vessels parted; the crew of the Pequod looking with
it; mark it well; the white flame but lights the way to the White Whale!
joky, hoky-poky lad, is the Ocean, oh!  The scud all a flyin' That's his
keep up my spirits.  And I tell you what it is, Mr. Starbuck, there's no way
kneel and kiss thee; but at thy highest, come as mere supernal power; and
know thee, thou clear spirit, and I now know that thy right worship is
knowest not of thyself, oh, thou omnipotent.  There is some unsuffusing thing
knows tornadoes that never swept tame northern lands.  So, too, it is, that in
land and on sea, cried Ahab, with a laugh of derision; -- Immortal on land
lantern hanging from its top, cast a troubled flickering glare upon the
last one must be grown in America.  Aye, aye!  a strange sight that, Parsee:
leaping out of thee!  The javelins cease; open eyes; see, or not?  There burn
leg off from the crown of the anchor here, though, so I can pass the rope;
life will dispute its unconditional, unintegral mastery in me.  In the midst
lightning-rod at all in a storm?  Don't you see, you timber-head, that no
lightning-rod in the storm, and standing close by a mast that hasn't got any
lightning-rods are not always overboard; but are generally made in long
lightning.  At that moment in one of the intervals of profound darkness,
like an exploding bomb upon a dazed and sleepy town.  Towards evening of that
like sap in a tree.  Yes, our three masts will yet be as three spermaceti
little man, you have pretty red hair, but you couldn't get afire now.  Shake
live, the queenly personality lives in me, and feels her royal rights.  But
living things, exhaled as air, but water now.  Then hail, for ever hail, O
long tailed coat ought always to be worn in all storms afloat.  The tails
long, ribbed hull, seemed as the three Horatii pirouetting on one sufficient
look ye here; thus I blow out the last fear!  And with one blast of his
lucifers forward?  Stop, now; didn't you say so?  Well, suppose I did?  What
madest me, and like a true child of fire, I breathe it back to thee.
main-top-sail yard!  Ho, gluepots!  Loftiest trucks were made for wildest
main-top-sail yard, sir.  The band is working loose, and the lee lift is
mainmast, full beneath the doubloon and the flame, the parsee was kneeling
man, said the Parsee, as his eyes lighted up like fire-flies in the gloom,
man; forbear!  t'is an ill voyage!  ill begun, ill continued; let me square
mariners quickly run to the braces, and would stand there with all their eyes
mark for thunderbolts; so at those last words of ahab's many of the mariners
mark his boat there; where is that stove?  In the stern-sheets, man; where
may be secured; but out on privileges!  Let them be, sir.  Look aloft!
me in the wide-slaughtering Typhoon, and the hushed burial of its after calm.
medicine!
men fly the neighborhood of some lone, gigantic elm, whose very height and
men never heeding their gaze for the lively revelry they were in.  And as
midnight waves, which gently chafed the whale's broad flank, like soft surf
mighty Pilot!  thou tellest me truly
mind; catch the turn there, and pass it.  Seems to me we are lashing down
mine beat against it; blood against fire!  So.
moment all the aghast mate's thoughts seemed theirs; they raised a half
monkey-jackets and tarpaulins for me; I must mount a swallow-tail, and drive
motionless Parsee's face.  Unobserved he rose and glided away; while,
mounted on them, and passing additional lashings over the anchors there
mutinous cry.  But dashing the rattling lightning links to the deck, and
muttered: Foolish toy!  babies' plaything of haughty Admirals, and
near; and every day when Ahab, coming from his cabin, cast his eyes aloft,
nightfall; but the windward one could not be reached till morning; and the
none of thine own.  What!  how can you see better of a dark night than
not a brave man; never said i was a brave man; I am a coward; and I sing to
not how came ye, hence callest thyself unbegotten; certainly knowest not thy
not know that the colic is a noisy malady.  Oh, take medicine, take
not shot from the crown of his head, as if God had meant him to gaze on his
not take it.  The lightning flashes through my skull; mine eye-balls ache and
notice the whirling velocity with which they revolved upon the cards; it is a
now hammers at us to stave us, we can turn it into a fair wind that will
now listen.  What's the mighty difference between holding a mast's
ocean's immeasureable burning-glass.  The sky looks lacquered; clouds there
of
of clear fire, whom on these seas I as Persian once did worship, till in the
of rum.  Um, um, um!
of the calm, and in the teeth of the tempest; they will imprecate curses
of the personified impersonal, a personality stands here.  Though but a
of the rigging, and more or less impeding the vessel's way in the water;
of them by Ahab.  It was far down the afternoon; and when all the spearings of
officer's skewered feather, and trailing behind like his sash.  Why don't ye
old man's bolted door, --a thin one, with fixed blinds inserted, in place of
on deck is the most satisfactory.  I say, just wring out my jacket skirts,
on the sea; the first not made by mortal hands; and the visible wood of the
one ahead; one astern.  These last three were brought alongside ere
one grain of sand will be to-morrow noon; and yet with thy impotence thou
one ship went cheerily before the breeze, the other stubbornly fought against
opinion, than all the crews in ten thousand ships now sailing the seas.  Why,
orchard twig.  In various enchanted attitudes, like the standing, or
other, its numerous cabalistical contrivances, he pondered again, and
others."  And damn me, Ahab, but thou actest right; live in the game, and
outside, or thrown down into the sea, as occasion may require.  The rods!
pale, forked fire.  As the silent harpoon burned there like a serpent's
pall-bearers.  Ha!  Such a sight we shall not soon see.  Believe it or not,
passionlessness.  At length the desired observation was taken; and with his
pencil upon his ivory leg, Ahab soon calculated what his latitude must be at
perilous fluid into the soil; so the kindred rod which at sea some ships
phosphorescence, like a far away constellation of stars.  Relieved against
pilot.  And when thou art so gone before --if that ever befall --then ere I
place on the sea.  Aye, lighting from the boat to the deck, thus I
plaintiveness, such inwreathing orisons curled up in that rosy air, that it
point at best; whencesoe'er I came; wheresoe'er I go; yet while I earthly
policy, just as though it were loaded with powder barrels aft and boxes of
post.  Are they overboard?  drop them over, fore and aft.  Quick!  Avast!
precise meridian.  Meantime while his whole attention was absorbed, the Parsee
promising an event should so soon have falsified the evil portents preceding
ran shuddering through the air.  Started from his slumbers, Ahab, face to
real stature, and seemed the black cloud from which the thunder had come.
reefed, and a storm-trysail was set further aft; so that the ship soon went
reelingly hurled to the deck by its spasmodic motions, even though preventer
rigging; but if thou art a brave man thou wilt hold thy peace.  But I am
right hand pressed hard upon them.] I own thy speechless, placeless power;
right side, fortune's favorites sail close by us, we, though all adroop
sacramental act so burned by thee, that to this hour I bear the scar; I now
said I not so?  Nor was it wrung from me; nor do I now drop these links.
sails fill out.  So seemed it with the Pequod.  For next day after
sea roared and split with the thunder, and blazed with the lightning, that
sea, freighted with these vesper hymns.  Soothed again, but only soothed to
sea, in whose eternal tossings the wild fowl finds his only rest.  Born of
sea-coal ashes --mind ye that, Mr. Starbuck --sea-coal, not your common
seemed thereby bringing two remote associations together, for that vial was
sensible, that's a fact.  And I am about drenched with this spray.  Never
ship Ahab sails in, that ship should pay something extra on its insurance
ship's prow for the equator.  In good time the order came.  It was hard upon
ships, But he only smacks his lips, A tastin' of this flip, -- Such a funny,
should see these too-favoring sights.  Look!  here, far water-locked; beyond
showed the disabled masts fluttering here and there with
sieve.  Bad work, bad work!  Mr. Starbuck, said Stubb, regarding the wreck,
sight of Stubb's face slowly beginning to glimmer into sight.  Glancing
sight that hardly any one can behold without some sort of unwonted emotion.
sing away, if thou must!  I don't half understand ye: what's in the wind?
sky-sail poles, I'd sway them up now.  Sir? --in God's name! --sir?  Well.
slender links, so as to be the more readily hauled up into the chains
slipping backward on the deck, his uplifted eyes caught the flames; and
snatching the burning harpoon, Ahab waved it like a torch among them;
soliloquized Starbuck suddenly, heedless of Stubb's question.  The gale that
spectacle observable in all sperm whales dying --the turning sunwards of the
sperm-oil, d'ye see; and so, all that sperm will work up into the masts,
sporty, gamy, jesty, joky, hoky-poky lad, is the Ocean, oh!  Avast Stubb,
steed.  Standing between the knight-heads, Starbuck watched the Pequod's
stepping, or running skeletons in Herculaneum, others remained rooted to the
storms, the Typhoon.  It will sometimes burst from out that cloudless sky,
strength but render it so much the more unsafe, because so much the more a
strenuous exertions of Starbuck and Stubb --one engaged forward and the other
strike that?  Oh, none but cowards send down their brain-trucks in tempest
sun and whale both stilly died together; then, such a sweetness and such
sun!  Level by nature to this earth's horizon are the glances of man's eyes;
supposing we are loaded with powder barrels aft and lucifers forward; how
swashing sea heaved up under his own little craft, so that its gunwale
swearing to transfix with it the first sailor that but cast loose a rope's
tackles had been attached to it --for they were slack -- because some play to
takes me for the hunch-backed skipper of some coasting smack.  Send down my
taking his wonted daily obervation of the sun to determine his latitude.  Now,
tapering down that way, serve to carry off the water, d'ye see.  Same with
that I shall yet slay Moby Dick and survive it.  Take another pledge, old
that he held, the men fell back in dismay, and Ahab again spoke: -- All
that precise instant.  Then falling into a moment's revery, he again looked
that still remains indifferent.  Oh, thou clear spirit, of thy fire thou
the Parsee; and with fixed upward eye, and high-flung right arm, he stood
the affairs of the deck, --Starbuck had no sooner trimmed the yards to the
the arched and overhanging rigging, where they had just been engaged securing
the devil could the lucifers get afire in this drenching spray here?  Why, my
the elements.  The loaded muskets in the rack were shiningly revealed, as
the flames!  Oh, thou magnanimous!  now do I glory in my genealogy.  But thou
the forecastle, till Ahab, troubledly pacing the deck, shouted out -- To the
the ghostly light, the gigantic jet negro, Daggoo, loomed up to thrice his
the last men in a flooded world.  I have dreamed it again, said he.  Of the
the moaning in squadrons over Asphaltites of unforgiven ghosts of Gomorrah,
the needles in the compasses, at intervals, go round and round.  It was thus
the rags which the first fury of the tempest had left for its after sport.
the rods!  cried Starbuck to the crew, suddenly admonished to vigilance by
the ship half-wheeled
the slumbering crew arose from the boat's bottom, and ere noon the dead whale
the things that cast man's eyes aloft to that heaven, whose live vividness
the tiller was indispensable.  In a severe gale like this, while the ship is
the vigilant helmsman would ostentatiously handle his spokes, and the eager
the vivid lightning that had just been darting flambeaux, to light Ahab to his
the whale, and tapped the light cedar planks with their tails.  A sound like
the wind seemed coming round astern; aye!  the foul breeze became fair!
the windward quarter boat (Ahab's) did not escape.  A great rolling sea,
the yards, while we may, old man, and make a fair wind of it homewards, to
thee, thou sun!  Then gazing at his quadrant, and handling, one after the
thee: no!  not one jot more!  Thou canst not tell where one drop of water or
then?  i've part changed my flesh since that time, why not my mind?  Besides,
these anchors now as if they were never going to be used again.  tying these
these resplendent Japanese seas the mariner encounters the direst of all
they stood upright against the forward bulkhead.  Starbuck was an honest,
they will, still.  But do they only have mercy on long faces? --have they no
thine?  And who are hearsed that die on the sea?  But I said, old man, that
thinkest thou now, man; I heard thy cry; it was not the same in the song.
this way and that --was burning fitfully, and casting fitful shadows upon the
thou canst but kill; and all are killed.  No fearless fool now fronts thee.
thou canst not die till it be seen, old man.  And what was that saying about
thou done with her?  There lies my puzzle; but thine is greater.  Thou knowest
thou tell where some other thing besides me is this moment living?  Where is
thou thyself happenest to be on this wide planet, and the hand that holds
though thou launchest navies of full-freighted worlds, there's that in here
thrice their previous height; Ahab, with the rest, closes his eyes, his
through the water with some precision again; and the course --for the present,
thunder?  Um, um, um.  We don't want thunder; we want rum; give us a glass
thy creativeness mechanical.  Through thee, thy flaming self, my scorched
thyself?  Though it come to the last, I shall still go before thee thy
time.  What a hooroosh aloft there!  I would e'en take it for sublime, did I
tipped with a pallid fire; and touched at each tri-pointed lightning-rod-end
to leeward, homeward --I see it lightens up there; but not with the
to stop my singing
to the helmsman.  For during the violence of the gale, he had only steered
to traditions no rocks furnish tablets; where for long Chinese ages, the
together, and hung pendulous, like a knot of numbed wasps from a drooping,
tongue, Starbuck grasped Ahab by the arm -- God, God is against thee, old
too hast thy incommunicable riddle, thy unparticipated grief.  Here again with
tormented flaming life; and I have seen it wane at last, down, down, to
trample on thee, thou paltry thing that feebly pointest on high; thus I split
tumultuous way, and Ahab's also, as he went lurching along the deck.  I
tune this heart beats;
two anchors here, Flask, seems like tying a man's hands behind him.  And what
unnamable imminglings, float beneath me here; I am buoyed by breaths of once
unverdured seas; thou art an infidel, thou queen, and too truly speakest to
up to my table-lands yet.  Quick, and see to it. --By masts and keels!  he
up towards the sun and murmured to himself: Thou sea-mark!  thou high and
upon a beach.  Ahab and all his boat's crew seemed asleep but the Parsee; who
upon her heel, her three firm-seated graceful masts erectly poised upon her
upon the Niger's unknown source; here, too, life dies sunwards full of
upper panels.  The isolated subterraneousness of the cabin made a certain
upwards, he cried: See!  see!  and once more the high tapering flames were
violently jammed his hand, as he was passing a lashing.  Blast it! --but
war is pain, and hate is woe.  Come in thy lowest form of love, and I will
was brought to the ship.
was furnished with colored glasses, through which to take sight of that solar
watching his final wanings from the now tranquil boat.  For that strange
where I am --but canst thou cast the least hint where I shall be?  Or canst
will I guide my earthly way by thee; the level ship's compass, and the level
will ye?  Thank ye.  They laugh at long-togs so, Flask; but seems to me, a
winds, and this brain-truck of mine now sails amid the cloud-scud.  Shall I
with a small lightning-rod running up the corner of his hat, like a militia
with half an eye can be sensible.  I don't know that, Stubb.  You sometimes
with thee; I burn with thee; would fain be welded with thee; defyingly I
with three tapering white flames, each of the three tall masts was silently
world it runs, and then comes the spring!  But as for me, all the start I
worship thee!  The boat!  the boat!  cried Starbuck, look at thy boat, old
would be liable to many mishaps, besides interfering not a little with some
ye the doxology for a wind-up.  Madman!  look through my eyes if thou hast
you King-Post, you, I suppose you would have every man in the world go about
your oaths to hunt the White Whale are as binding as mine; and heart, soul,
yourself; you're Aquarius, or the water-bearer, Flask; might fill pitchers
