


















    
    
     A Voyage round Cape Horn into the South Seas, for the purpose of extending
     Advancement of Learning you will find some curious whales.  But quitting all
     I shall ere long
     PICTURES OF WHALING SCENES In connexion with the monstrous pictures of
     Slowly wading through the meadows of brit, the
     Steering north-eastward from the Crozetts, we
     Whale; Colnett's, Huggins's, Frederick Cuvier's, and Beale's.  In the
     and, as for the narwhale, one glimpse at it is enough to amaze one, that in
     antediluvian Hindoo.  It is Guido's picture of Perseus rescuing Andromeda
     caused by the vast drifts of brit continually floating in those latitudes,
     intelligent public of schoolboys.  Then, again, in
     so that we seemed to be sailing through boundless fields of ripe and golden
     this story is in substance really true?  It is so passing wonderful!  Did you
     trace out great whales in the starry heavens, and boats in pursuit of them;
     with broken back, would correctly represent the noble animal itself in all
 "Also bear with all of us, sir sailor; for we all join in Don Sebastian's
 "So help me Heaven, and on my honor the story I have told ye, gentlemen, is
 (in the act of cutting-in) hove over to the monster as if to a quay; and a
"but I know a worthy priest near by, who will quickly procure one for me.  I
(that is to say, the Right whale), even Scoresby, a long experienced man as
, Bernard Germain,
, and hoisted on deck.  I doubt not the
, entitled A Whaling Voyage to
, he
, there are plates of an alleged whale and a narwhale.  I do not wish
.. < chapter lix 4  SQUID >
.. < chapter lv 7  OF THE MONSTROUS PICTURES OF WHALES >
.. < chapter lvi 6  OF THE LESS ERRONEOUS PICTURES OF WHALES, AND THE TRUE >
.. < chapter lvii 23  OF WHALES IN PAINT; IN TEETH; IN WOOD; IN >
.. < chapter lviii 11  BRIT >
.. <p 241n. >
.. <p 260 >
.. <p 261 >
.. <p 261 >
.. <p 262 >
.. <p 263 >
.. <p 264 >
.. <p 265 >
.. <p 266 >
.. <p 266 >
.. <p 267 >
.. <p 268 >
.. <p 269 >
.. <p 269 >
.. <p 270 >
.. <p 271 >
.. <p 272 >
.. <p 272 >
.. <p 272n. >
.. <p 273 >
.. <p 274 >
.. <p 275 >
.. <p 275 >
Again the phantom went down, but on re-appearing once more, with a
Auto-da-Fes in Lima now," said one of the company to another: "I fear our
Browne are pretty correct in contour; but they are wretchedly engraved.  That
But it was only the sound they made as they parted the brit which at all
Christian painter's portrait of this fish; for he succeeds no better than the
Consider!  Most of the scientific drawings have been taken from the
Count de Lacepede,
Don Sebastian; but may I also beg that you will be particular in procuring
Don." "Then I entreat you, tell me if to the best of your own convictions,
Frederick Cuvier's Sperm Whale is not a Sperm Whale, but a squash.  Of course,
Gate leading from the Thames by water into the Tower.  Then, there are the
Go and gaze upon all the paintings in Europe, and where will you find such a
God keep thee!  Push not off from that isle, thou canst never return!
Harris's collection of voyages there are some plates of whales extracted from
Holy Evangelists in the Golden Inn, gentlemen?" "Nay," said Don Sebastian;
Hydrus and the Flying Fish.  With a frigate's anchors for my bridle-bitts and
In the distance, a great white mass lazily rose, and rising higher and
King of the Cannibals; and ready at any moment to rebel against him.  Now,
Leviathan partly merged in grass, which of a windy day breaks against them in
Northern Lights, and the successive armed kings and Emperors dash by, like a
Pequod still held on her way north-eastward towards the island of Java; a
Prodromus whales of the old Scotch Sibbald, and Jonah's whale, as depicted
Richard III.  whales, with dromedary humps, and very savage; breakfasting on
SHEET-IRON; IN STONE; IN MOUNTAINS; IN STARS On Tower-hill, as you go down
Scoresby; but they are drawn on too small a scale to convey a desirable
Sperm Whale-teeth, or ladies' busks wrought out of the Right Whale-bone, and
Spitzbergen in the ship Jonas in the Whale, Peter Peterson of Friesland,
Steelkilt since the death of Radney."
Tahitians, who had been somewhat used to the sea.  Chartering a small native
That part of the sea known among whalemen as the Brazil Banks does not bear
The ancient whale-cry upon first sighting a whale from the mast-head, still
There, luck befriended him; two ships were about to sail for France, and
Venetian blind in their mouths, was in that manner separated from the water
Vishnu in the form of leviathan, learnedly known as the Matse Avatar.  But
Whale is depicted in full majesty of might, just risen beneath the boat from
Who Garnery the painter is, or was, I know not.  But my life for it he was
With the same marvellous patience, and with the same single shark's tooth,
a Dutch book of voyages, A. D.
a Picture of a Physeter or Spermaceti whale, drawn by scale from one killed
a great naturalist, published a scientific systemized whale book, wherein are
a stiff full length of the Greenland whale, and three or four delicate
a surf of green surges.  Then, again, in mountainous countries where the
abounding a smoke in the chimney, you would think there must be a brave
absolute body the whale is moored alongside the whale-ship so that he can be
according to the accompanying scale, to a full grown sperm whale, would make
accounts.  It is a quiet noon-scene among the isles of the Pacific; a French
accuracy.  At some old gable-roofed country houses you will see brass whales
accursed shark alone can in any generic respect be said to bear comparative
adapted to our present purpose, nevertheless deserves mention on other
advert to those curious imaginary portraits of him which even down to the
again resumed his cruisings.  Where Steelkilt now is, gentlemen, none know;
again, and in due time arrived at Tahiti, his own place of destination.
against the rocks, and leaves them there side by side with the split wrecks
all raging commotion; but behind, in admirable artistic contrast, is the
alluring jet would be seen.  But one transparent blue morning, when a
alongside the barnacled flank of a large running Right Whale, that rolls his
analogy to him.  But though, to landsmen in general, the native inhabitants
ancient extant portrait anyways purporting to be the whale's, is to be found
and full of barbaric spirit and suggestiveness, as the prints of that fine
and in those days, and even down to a comparatively late period, dolphins
and joined the chase against the starry Cetus far beyond the utmost stretch of
and other embellishments of some ancient books you will at times meet with
and round
and soundings there, but because of this remarkable meadow-like appearance,
and taken from paintings by one Garnery.  Respectively, they represent
and were stationary for a while, their vast black forms looked more like
antique vases.  Though universally denominated a dolphin, I nevertheless call
any leviathan's articulated bones.  In fact, as the great Hunter says, the
any stagnant calm; when the long burnished sun-glade on the waters seemed a
application.  As with the Hawaiian savage, so with the white sailor-savage.
are these sea battle-pieces of Garnery.  The natural aptitude of the French for
arrived, and the captain was forced to enlist some of the more civilized
as the vacant profile of the whale; which, so far as picturesqueness of
as when long filled with thoughts of war the Eastern nations saw armies locked
at any rate; and his stump as unquestionable a stump as any you will find in
attacks on the Sperm and Right Whale.  In the first engraving a noble Sperm
augment; yet for ever and for ever, to the crack of doom, the sea will
authentic abortions; that is, from a Chinese drawing.  And what sort of
background, both drooping together in the breezeless air.  The effect is very
backs.  In another plate, the prodigious blunder is made of representing the
bare, blackened elevations of the soil; even so, often, with him, who for the
be found among the oldest Hindoo, Egyptian, and Grecian sculptures.  For ever
be so good as to bring the priest also, Don?" "Though there are no
be too fastidious in your curiosity touching this Leviathan.
beached, and drawn up to the roots of the cocoa-nut trees, Steelkilt made sail
before any of them actually came into being.  No wonder then, that in some
believe that such bulky masses of overgrowth can possibly be instinct, in all
better than theirs; but, by great odds, Beale's is the best.  All Beale's
black weedy bulk in the sea like some mossy rock-slide from the Patagonian
boat, hurriedly pushing off from this scene of activity, is about giving
brilliance and beauty of many of its most remorseless tribes, as the dainty
business.  But, in general, they toil with their jack-knives alone; and, with
but in many scientific presentations of him.  Now, by all odds, the most
but in so important a matter it was certainly an oversight not to have
but upon the island of Nantucket, the widow of Radney still turns to the sea
by his living hunters.  But, taken for all in all, by far the finest, though
by some experienced whaleman.  The French are the lads for painting action.
candelabra in the library of one of his executors, correctly conveys the idea
captain had this veracious picture taken for the benefit of his marines.  To
captain, why did ye not give us Jonah looking out of that eye!  Nor are the
carrying on eternal war since the world began.  Consider all this; and then
caught nigh the paddle-wheels of an ocean steamer.  Thus, the foreground is
charge of crowned centaurs?  Not wholly unworthy of a place in that gallery,
chase to whales in the distance.  The harpoons and lances lie levelled for
chronicled them.  Nor when expandingly lifted by your subject, can you fail to
churches you will see sheet-iron whales placed there for weather-cocks; but
civilization inevitably restores a man to that condition in which God placed
cliffs.  His jets are erect, full, and black like soot; so that from so
coins, the dolphin was drawn in scales of chain-armor like Saladin's, and a
come.  His three whales are as good whales as were ever published in Wapping,
coming to specialties, where, for example, does the ocean furnish any fish
consecutive great battles of France; where every sword seems a flash of the
consideration will teach, that however baby man may brag of his science and
contour between a young sucking whale and a full-grown Platonian Leviathan;
countries of India, the stranger at a distance will sometimes pass on the
covering.  However recklessly the whale may sometimes serve us, said
crabs, shell-fish, and other sea candies and maccaroni, which the Right Whale
creatures glide under water, unapparent for the most part, and treacherously
creatures which itself hath spawned.  Like a savage tigress that tossing in
curious things about this Leviathan, that his skeleton gives very little idea
deck, such is then the outlandish, eel-like, limbered, varying shape of him,
deficiency, because it is by such pictures only, when at all well done,
deformities floundering in seas of blood and blue paint.  but these manifold
degree of exactness.  So there is no earthly way of finding out precisely what
dentistical-looking implements, specially intended for the skrimshandering
destroyed the wrecked ships of last year.  Yea, foolish mortals, Noah's flood
differ the sea and the land, that a miracle upon one is not a miracle upon
disasters have immemorially and indiscriminately befallen tens and hundreds
drawings of this whale are good, excepting the middle figure in the picture of
effect is concerned, is about tantamount to sketching the profile of a
either practically conversant with his subject, or else marvellously tutored
element it is a thing eternally impossible for mortal man to hoist
embellished shape of many species of sharks.  Consider, once more, the
encompassed by all the horrors of the half known life.
engravings of boat hooks, chopping knives, and grapnels; and with the
eternally stove and sunk by him.  Wherefore, it seems to me you had best not
even so these monsters swam, making a strange, grassy, cutting sound; and
ever; yet not a modern sun ever sets, but in precisely the same manner the
excite the civil scepticism of some parlor men, is admirably correct and
exhibited
fairly stepped upon there.  It may be worth while, therefore, previously to
fancied, that from the naked skeleton of the stranded whale, accurate hints
fasces of harpoons for spurs, would I could mount that whale and leap the
feelings that you do those of the shore.  For though some old naturalists have
feet of Korah and his company the live ground opened and swallowed them up for
fell in with vast meadows of brit, the minute, yellow substance, upon which
fine, when considered with reference to its presenting the hardy fishermen
first time beholds this species of the leviathans of the sea.  And even when
from some lucky point of view you will catch passing glimpses of the profiles
from the attack of a Sperm Whaler like the Pequod, with open jaws sluggishly
from the sea-monster or whale.  Where did Guido get the model of such a
frontispiece, boats attacking Sperm Whales, though no doubt calculated to
full-lengths, the living Leviathan has never yet fairly floated himself for
gallery of living and breathing commotion on canvas, as in that triumphal
gentle air impelling her keel, so that in the surrounding serenity her three
get it from an unquestionable source?  Bear with me if I seem to press."
glassy level of a sea becalmed, the drooping unstarched sails of the
gleamed.  It seemed not a whale; and yet is this Moby Dick?  thought Daggoo.
go for it; but are you well advised?  this may grow too serious." "Will you
going a whaling yourself; but by so doing, you run no small risk of being
golden finger laid across them, enjoining some secresy; when the slippered
good a one.  In the second engraving, the boat is in the act of drawing
great a trophy of human perseverance as a Latin lexicon.  For, with but a bit
hall at Versailles; where the beholder fights his way, pell-mell, through the
he never had the benefit of a whaling voyage (such men seldom have), but
helmeted head like St.  George's; ever since then has something of the same
hidden beneath the loveliest tints of azure.  Consider also the devilish
high broken cliffs masses of rock lie strewn in fantastic groupings upon the
higher, and disentangling itself from the azure, at last gleamed before our
him bodily into the air, so as to preserve all his mighty swells and
him is out of sight, like a launched line-of-battle ship; and out of that
him, i.  e.  what is called savagery.  Your true whale-hunter is as much a
himself h.  durand.  one of them, though not precisely
his own Perseus Descending, make out one whit better.  The huge corpulence
his portrait.  The living whale, in his full majesty and significance, is
his wonderful patience of industry.  An ancient Hawaiian war-club or
hot springs and cold, Saratoga and Baden-Baden, come bubbling up from his
human hand, minus only the thumb.  This fin has four regular bone-fingers,
humorous Stubb one day, he can never be truly said to handle us without
hung by the tail for knockers to the road-side door.  When the porter is
impression.  He has but one picture of whaling scenes, and this is a sad
in Nantucket, and New Bedford, and Sag Harbor, you will come across lively
in battle among the clouds.  Thus at the North have I chased Leviathan round
in his wake, and causing the slight boat to rock in the swells like a skiff
in some details not the most correct, presentations of whales and whaling
in substance and its great items, true.  I know it to be true; it happened on
in that prow, for that one single incomputable flash of time, you behold an
in the famous cavern-pagoda of Elephanta, in India.  The Brahmins maintain
in the prints of old Bibles and the cuts of old primers.  What shall be said
inch of water.  It has a sort of howdah on its back, and its distended tusked
inform us.  As for the sign-painters' whales seen in the streets hanging over
ingenious contrivances they elaborately carve out of the rough material, in
insult and murder him, and pulverize the stateliest, stiffest frigate he can
integrity) is being crunched by the jaws of the foremost whale.  Any time
is not his fault though.  Of the Right Whale, the best outline pictures are in
is not yet subsided; two thirds of the fair world it yet covers.  Wherein
it.  This peculiarity is strikingly evinced in the head, as in some part of
its undashed pride of hull and spars.  Though elephants have stood for their
labelled with Hands off!  you cannot examine them closely enough to decide
latitude and longitude of your first stand-point, else so chance-like are
leaving behind them endless swaths of blue upon the yellow sea.
leaving so much as a widow.  That same ocean rolls now; that same ocean
leviathan is rushing through the deep, leaving tons of tumultuous white curds
life-like in its general effect.  Some of the Sperm Whale drawings in J. Ross
lifeless masses of rock than anything else.  And as in the great hunting
like a mad battle steed that has lost its rider, the masterless ocean
like a rearing horse.  From the ship, the smoke of the torments of the boiling
like the tapering tail of an anaconda, than the broad palms of the true
live sea swallows up ships and crews.  But not only is the sea such a foe to
lively lads with the pencil those Chinese are, many queer cups and saucers
lodged in their fleshy covering, as the human fingers in an artificial
loosened sails of the ship, and the long leaves of the palms in the
maintained that all creatures of the land are of their kind in the sea; and
make; nevertheless, by the continual repetition of these
man who is an alien to it, but it is also a fiend to its own offspring;
master.  In one of those plates the whales, like great rafts of logs, are
may be derived touching his true form.  Not at all.  For it is one of the more
me.  And beneath the effulgent Antarctic skies I have boarded the Argo-Navis,
mean no disparagement to the excellent voyager (I honor him for a veteran),
mention but one thing about it, let me say that it has an eye which applied,
mere skeleton of the whale bears the same relation to the fully invested and
microscopic diligence of a Leuwenhoeck submits to the inspection of a
miniatures of narwhales and porpoises, treats us to a series of classical
mistakes in depicting the whale are not so very surprising after all.
mittens.  For all these reasons, then, any way you may look at it, you must
modern, especially in Pliny, Purchas, Hackluyt, Harris, Cuvier, etc.  But I
moment, as slowly it subsided, and sank.  Then once more arose, and silently
most conscientious compilations of Natural History for the benefit of the
mouth into which the billows are rolling, might be taken for the Traitors'
much nearer than another, but none can hit it with any very considerable
needs conclude that the great Leviathan is that one creature in the world
net-work has been achieved; and it has cost steady years of steady
not only incorrect, but the picture of the Mysticetus or Greenland whale
oarsman, half shrouded by the incensed boiling spout of the whale, and in
ocean, that with Portuguese vengeance had whelmed a whole world without
of a burly-browed utilitarian old gentleman, with all Jeremy's other leading
of affright; while in the black stormy distance the ship is bearing down upon
of broken sea-shell or a shark's tooth, that miraculous intricacy of wooden
of his general shape.  Though Jeremy Bentham's skeleton, which hangs for
of his one poor jack-knife, he will carve you a bit of bone sculpture, not
of men which the sailor headed.  They embarked; and so for ever got the start
of ships.  No mercy, no power but its own controls it.  Panting and snorting
of that Hogarthian monster undulates on the surface, scarcely drawing one
of the Peace.  In addition to those fine engravings from Garnery, there are
of the latter, yet that small section of him is all wrong.  It looks more
of the seas have ever been regarded with emotions unspeakably unsocial and
of the small dark slabs of the noble South Sea war-wood, are frequently met
of the swimming crew are scattered about the whale in contrasting expressions
of the whale as he actually appears to the eye of the whaleman when in his own
of their former captain, had he been at all minded to work them legal
of these?  As for the book-binder's whale winding like a vine-stalk round the
of thousands of those who have gone upon the waters; though but a moment's
of whales defined along the undulating ridges.  But you must be a thorough
of whaling should have been there shadowed forth.  The Hindoo whale referred
old Dutch savage, Albert Durer.  Wooden whales, or whales cut in profile out
on a plain.  And still, at wide intervals in the silvery night, the lonely,
on the coast of Mexico, August,
one of the boats (presumed to contain the missing leg in all its original
one of the peculiar characteristics of the savage in his domestic hours, is
only finished sketches at all capable of conveying the real spirit of the
only to be seen at sea in unfathomable waters; and afloat the vast bulk of
other like skrimshander articles, as the whalemen call the numerous little
other respects, you can hardly regard any creatures of the deep with the same
overruns the globe.  Consider the subtleness of the sea; how its most dreaded
packed in its maziness of design, as the Greek savage, Achilles's shield;
padded animal as the insect does to the chrysalis that so roundingly envelopes
paint to you as well as one can without canvas, something like the true form
paintings and engravings they have of their whaling scenes.  With not one
parts, with the same sort of life that lives in a dog or a horse.  Indeed, in
pass that matter by.  i know of only four published outlines of the great Sperm
personal characteristics; yet nothing of this kind could be inferred from
picture of the Sperm Whale.  Before showing that picture to any Nantucketer,
plain, you will often discover images as of the petrified forms of the
plains recumbent elephants without knowing them to be such, taking them for
popular work Goldsmith's Animated Nature.  In the abridged London edition of
powerless ship, and the inert mass of a dead whale, a conquered fortress,
present day confidently challenge the faith of the landsman.  It is time to
previous chapter Colnett and Cuvier have been referred to.  Huggins's is far
procured for every crystal a sworn affidavit taken before a Greenland Justice
prow like a snow-slide, new slid from the hills.  Thus glistening for a
published a Natural History of Whales, in which he gives what he calls a
publisher somewhere about the 15th century, during the Revival of Learning;
purely fabulous creature, imitated, I take it, from the like figures on
purporting to be sober, scientific delineations, by those who know.  In old
pyramid.  Even Scoresby, the justly renowned Right whaleman, after giving us
quite a different affair: the ship hove-to upon the open sea, and in the
quite as workmanlike, but as close
recognised at last, their immense magnitude renders it very hard really to
remain incognita, though once high-ruffed Mendanna trod them and old Figuera
reminded one of mowers.  Seen from the mast-heads, especially when they paused
repelling; though we know the sea to be an everlasting terra incognita, so
represented lying among ice-isles, with white bears running over their living
require a laborious re-discovery; like the Solomon islands, which still
retribution.  Some ten days after the French ships sailed, the whale-boat
ruefully contemplating his own amputation.  Throughout the Pacific, and also
sailor friend runs risk of the archiepiscopacy.  Let us withdraw more out of
sailors say) holding a painted board before him, representing the tragic
savage as an Iroquois.  I myself am a savage; owning no allegiance but to the
scene in which he lost his leg.  There are three whales and three boats; and
scenes to be anywhere found, are two large French engravings, well executed,
schooner, he returned with them to his vessel; and finding all right there,
scientific predecessor in the same field, Desmarest, got one of his
sea and the land; and do you not find a strange analogy to something in
sea, he swam back to his comrades.  Watching the boat till it was fairly
sea; the wooden poles of the spilled harpoons obliquely bob in it; the heads
seem entirely content with presenting the mechanical outline of things, such
seethingly advance their scythes through the long wet grass of marshy meads;
seizing the picturesqueness of things seems to be peculiarly evinced in what
seldom remarkable as faithful essays.  On the spires of some old-fashioned
set the world right in this matter, by proving such pictures of the whale all
several pictures of the different species of the Leviathan.  All these are
shivering world ninety-six fac-similes of magnified Arctic snow crystals.  I
since those inventive but unscrupulous times when on the marble panellings of
sketches of whales and whaling-scenes, graven by the fishermen themselves on
skill, and however much, in a flattering future, that science and skill may
sleepy, the anvil-headed whale would be best.  But these knocking whales are
solemn figure.  "Let me remove my hat.  Now, venerable priest, further into
sometimes carries on his pestilent back.  And all the while the thick-lipped
sort of license prevailed, not only in most popular pictures of the whale,
sort our noble profession
soul of man there lies one insular Tahiti, full of peace and joy, but
spear-paddle, in its full multiplicity and elaboration of carving, is as
spout-hole.
stillness almost preternatural spread over the sea, however unattended with
stock of a descending anchor --as stamped and gilded on the backs and
stories of them which are to be found in certain books, both ancient and
stranded fish; and these are about as correct as a drawing of a wrecked ship,
strange creature as that?  Nor does Hogarth, in painting the same scene in
stump-speech does the poor whaleman make; but, with downcast eyes, stands
such observations of the hills, that your precise, previous stand-point would
sudden roll of the sea, the little craft stands half-erect out of the water,
suit," cried the company, with exceeding interest.  "Is there a copy of the
superficial western one; though, by vast odds, the most terrific of all mortal
supper cooking in the great bowels below.  Sea fowls are pecking at the small
swam through the brit, which, adhering to the fringing fibres of that wondrous
tall tapering masts mildly waved to that languid breeze, as three mild palms
temples, the pedestals of statues, and on shields, medallions, cups, and
tenth of England's experience in the fishery, and not the thousandth part of
tents really lie encamped beyond my mortal sight!
terrific wreck of the stoven planks.  The prow of the boat is partially
that Columbus sailed over numberless unknown worlds to discover his one
that almost omnipotent tool of the sailor, they will turn you out anything
that destroyed him.  "Are you through?" said Don Sebastian, quietly.  "I am,
that escaped at the lip.  As morning mowers, who side by side slowly and
that his precise expression the devil himself could not catch.  But it may be
that in disposition answers to the sagacious kindness of the dog?  The
that in the almost endless sculptures of that immemorial pagoda, all the
that name as the Banks of Newfoundland do, because of there being shallows
that of the Americans, they have nevertheless furnished both nations with the
that stump to an incredulous world.  But the time of his justification has now
that you can derive anything like a truthful idea of the living whale as seen
the Evangelists," said Don Sebastian, gravely, returning with a tall and
the Pole with the revolutions of the bright points that first defined him to
the Right Whale largely feeds.  For leagues and leagues it undulated round us,
the Spermaceti Whale Fisheries.  In this book is an outline purporting to be
the act of leaping, as if from a precipice.  The action of the whole thing is
the eye of that whale a bow-window some five feet long.  Ah, my gallant
the index, middle, ring, and little finger.  But all these are permanently
the jungle overlays her own cubs, so the sea dashes even the mightiest whales
the largest sized Evangelists you can." "This is the priest, he brings you
the light, and hold the Holy Book before me that I may touch it."
the moonlight.  I see no need for this." "Excuse me for running after you,
the other?  Preternatural terrors rested upon the Hebrews, when under the
the placing of the cap-sheaf to all this blundering business was reserved for
the profundities of the ocean, and bearing high in the air upon his back the
the scene.  Serious fault might be found with the anatomical details of this
the scientific Frederick Cuvier, brother to the famous Baron.  In
the shops of oil-dealers, what shall be said of them?  They are generally
the side fin, the bones of which almost exactly answer to the bones of the
the western clearings.  But, though for ever mounted on that stump, never a
the whale really looks like.  And the only mode in which you can derive even a
their hours of ocean leisure.  Some of them have little boxes of
these ten years, they tell me, has that man held up that picture, and
these unprofessional attempts, let us glance at those pictures of leviathan
they are so elevated, and besides that are to all intents and purposes so
this ball; I trod the ship; I knew the crew; I have seen and talked with
this book will be incidentally shown.  It is also very curiously displayed in
this book-binder's fish an attempt at a whale; because it was so intended
this nineteenth century such a hippogriff could be palmed for genuine upon any
though taking a broad general view of the thing, this may very well be; yet
though this sculpture is half man and half whale, so as only to give the tail
three or four sailor tarts, that is whaleboats full of mariners: their
three whales in various attitudes, capping his second chapter.  His
title-pages of many books both old and new --that is a very picturesque but
to quicken the activity of the excited seamen.
to seem inelegant, but this unsightly whale looks much like an amputated sow;
to such a sight again, you must be sure and take the exact intersecting
to the London docks, you may have seen a crippled beggar (or kedger, as the
to, occurs in a separate department of the wall, depicting the incarnation of
tolerable idea of his living contour, is by
topmost skies, to see whether the fabled heavens with all their countless
touching that species, declares not to have its counterpart in nature.  But
trades and pursuits, every conceivable avocation of man, were prefigured ages
traveller is continually girdled by amphitheatrical heights; here and there
turn to this green, gentle, and most docile earth; consider them both, the
two other French engravings worthy of note, by some one who subscribes
unbroken, and is drawn just balancing upon the monster's spine; and standing
under one of their few aspects of oriental repose.  The other engraving is
undulations.  And, not to speak of the highly presumable difference of
unexhausted brain.  In the title-page of the original edition of the
universal cannibalism of the sea; all whose creatures prey upon each other,
upon their merit.  In bony, ribby regions of the earth, where at the base of
use; three oarsmen are just setting the mast in its hole; while from a
used by whalemen in hunting the famous Gallipagos terrapin.
very curious touches at the whale, where all manner of spouts, jets d'eau,
very heart of the Leviathanic life, with a Right Whale alongside; the vessel
very impressions, man has lost that sense of the full awfulness of the sea
visible sphere a strange spectre was seen by Daggoo from the main-mast-head.
waves whispered together as they softly ran on; in this profound hush of the
were popularly supposed to be a species of the Leviathan.  In the vignettes
were providentially in want of precisely that number
whale hunt.  For the most part, the English and American whale draughtsmen
whale is going up like the smoke over a village of smithies; and to
whale with perpendicular flukes.  Then again, there is an imposing quarto,
whale's majestic flukes.  But go to the old Galleries, and look now at a great
whale, but let that pass; since, for the life of me, I could not draw so
whaleman, to see these sights; and not only that, but if you wish to return
whaler anchored, inshore, in a calm, and lazily taking water on board; the
whales, I am strongly tempted here to enter upon those still more monstrous
wheat.  On the second day, numbers of Right Whales were seen, who, secure
when the device was first introduced.  It was introduced by an old Italian
whence he derived that picture, who can tell?  Perhaps he got it as his
where the Right Whale is often chased.
which aboriginally belongs to it.  The first boat we read of, floated on an
which must remain unpainted to the last.  True, one portrait may hit the mark
which refuses to give up its dead; still in dreams sees the awful white whale
windward, a black cloud, rising up with earnest of squalls and rains, seems
with in the forecastles of American whalers.  Some of them are done with much
with the flag of capture lazily hanging from the whale-pole inserted into his
wonderfully good and true.  The half-emptied line-tub floats on the whitened
worse than the Persian host who murdered his own guests; sparing not the
written by one Captain Colnett, a Post Captain in the English navy, entitled
wrong.  It may be that the primal source of all those pictorial delusions will
yet, even in the case of one of those young sucking whales hoisted to a ship's
you had best provide for your summary retreat from Nantucket.  In a word,
you please, in the way of a mariner's fancy.  Long exile from Christendom and
young and tender, free from the same heinousness of mistake.  Look at that
yourself?  For as this appalling ocean surrounds the verdant land, so in the
