




















     But sliding down the ropes like baleful comets, the two Canallers rushed into
     But to this their leader as fiercely objected, reserving that priority for
     During the night, Radney had an unseamanlike way of sitting on the
     For three hundred and sixty miles, gentlemen, through the entire breadth of
     On the fourth day of the sail, a large canoe was descried, which seemed to
     Radney, pretending not to have heard the sailors' talk.  "Thunder away at it!"
     and let us hear what he can say for himself."  For a moment the exhausted
     and we're your men; but we won't be flogged." "Turn to!  I make no
     and with curses, the appalling beauty of the vast milky mass, that lit up by
     business of heaving down the ship to stop the leak.  But to such unresting
     but it was to no purpose.  And in this way the two went once slowly round the
     fears of ultimate retribution, had constrained them to surrender at
     hereabouts in this dull, warm, most lazy, and hereditary land, we know but
     run a muck from the bowsprit to the taffrail; and if by any devilishness of
     the forecastle.  In a few minutes the scuttle was opened, and, bound hand
     they swore they were ready for that, or for any other mad thing, for
     told his persecutor that if the hammer but grazed his cheek he (Steelkilt)
     upon resuming the head of his watch at night.  Upon this, and one or two
     with truly nautical duties, such being the case with his comrades.  I mention
     you pour out again."  Freely depicted in his own vocation, gentlemen, the
 "A pretty scholar," laughed the Lakeman."Adios, Senor!" and leaping into the
 "Aye, aye, my merry lads, it's a lively leak this; hold a cannikin, one of
 "Aye, aye, sir," said Steelkilt, merry as a cricket.  "Lively, boys, lively,
 "Like a lanyard for your bag; but it's an odd one, seems to me." "Yes,
 "Oh!  certainly," said the Captain and the key clicked.  It was at this
 "Turn to!  turn to! --I make no promise; --to your duty!  Do you want to sink
 "Well for our northern friend, Dame Isabella's Inquisition wanes in Lima,"
 "You are a coward!" hissed the Lakeman.  "So I am, but take that."  The mate
"We have seen many whale-ships in our harbors, but never heard of your
"but I think it will answer.  Shipmate, I haven't enough twine, --have you
-- Corrupt as Lima.  It but bears out your saying, too; churches more
--justice demanded it; but for the present, considering their timely
--neither twine nor lanyard were seen again; but the next night an iron ball,
.. <p 245 >
.. <p 246 >
.. <p 247 >
.. <p 248 >
.. <p 249 >
.. <p 250 >
.. <p 251 >
.. <p 252 >
.. <p 253 >
.. <p 254 >
.. <p 255 >
.. <p 256 >
.. <p 257 >
.. <p 258 >
.. <p 259 >
But a sudden, terrific, downward jerking of the boat, quickly brought his
Canaller would make a fine dramatic hero, so abundantly and picturesquely
Canallers are; for such information may throw side-light upon my story."
Canallers, thus far apparently of one mind with him, to burst out of their
Canallers.  Pardon: who and what are they?" "Canallers, Don, are the boatmen
Captain with a heartless jeer.  "Shut us up again, will ye!" cried Steelkilt.
Captain; who, to the amazement of all hands, started back, paced the deck
Christian corn-field, and recklessly ploughing the waters of the most barbaric
Cleopatra, ripening his apricot thigh upon the sunny deck.  But ashore, all
Dons --nay, nay!  I cannot rehearse that now.  Let me get more into the air,
Fearing in his heart lest this might prove but too true, the captain a little
Grand Canal furnishes the sole transition between quietly reaping in a
He paused: and then pausing no more, made good his word, spite of Steelkilt's
Heaven itself seemed to step in to take out of his hands into its own the
I proceed. --Now, gentlemen, so suddenly perceiving the snowy whale within
Intolerably striding along the deck, the mate commanded him to get a broom
Islanders not to approach the ship at their peril, took one man with him, and
Others of the sailors joined with them in this attempt, and a twisted turmoil
Pedro, looking downwards into the crowded plazza, with humorous concern.
Rad were here now, I'd tell him to jump overboard and scatter 'em.  They're
Rad;" and he rose to go aft.  "You don't mean to go a begging to him!" said
Radney had spat in his face.  Any man who has gone sailor in a whale-ship will
Sirs." "The chicha!  the chicha!" cried Don Pedro; "our vigorous friend
So, too, Venice; I have been there; the holy city of the blessed evangelist,
St.  Mark! --St.  Dominic, purge it!  Your cup!  Thanks: here I refill;  now,
Steelkilt --but, gentlemen, you shall hear.  It was not more than a day or two
Steelkilt and his desperadoes were too much for them all; they succeeded in
Steelkilt calculated his time, and found that his next trick at the helm
Steelkilt had been regularly assigned captain of one of the gangs;
Steelkilt; "no lies." "I am bound to Tahiti for more men." "Very good.  Let
Sydney men, are so much distrusted by our whaling captains.  Nor does it at
Tahiti, five hundred miles distant, to procure a reinforcement to his crew.
The fetid closeness of the air, and a famishing diet, united perhaps to some
The mutineer was the bowsman of the mate, and when fast to a fish, it was
Town-Ho's leak seemed again increasing, but only so as to require an hour or
What say ye, men?" turning to his comrades.  A fierce cheer was their
With one foot on each prow of the yoked war-canoes, the Lakeman laughed him
a horizontal spangling sun, shifted and glistened like a living opal in the
a man of us turns to, unless you swear not to raise a rope-yarn against us.
a pale man, with a bandaged head, arrested them --Radney the chief mate.  Ever
a phrensy.  "The White Whale --the White Whale!" was the cry from captain,
a sailor.  "Why not?  Do you think he won't do me a turn, when it's to help
a story." "How?  how!" cried all the young Spaniards, crowding.  "Nay, Dons,
a stupid Teneriffe man, drawing water in the main-chains, all at once
about the safety of the ship, some of the seamen declared that it was only on
accessible coast, or if any other reasonable retreat is afforded them.  It is
account of his being a part owner in her.  So when they were working that
administered in the vernacular.  "But as for you, ye carrion rogues," turning
affected not to notice him, but unawed, went on with his gay banterings.
after it; when again turning the key upon them and pocketing it, the Captain
after, his trick at the silent helm --nigh to the man who was apt to doze over
again; but the whale eluded them, and finally wholly disappeared.  In good
against ye unless ye attack us; but till you say the word about not flogging
ain't those mincing knives down in the forecastle there, men?  look to those
all diminish the curiousness of this matter, that to many thousands of our
all hands were turned to, and, sullenly worked by the moody seamen, the iron
all these particulars so that you may understand exactly how this affair stood
anchored the ship as far off shore as possible; loaded and ran out his two
and aft, especially about the forecastle scuttle and fore hatchway; at which
and betake himself where he belonged.  On the fifth morning three others of
and bound the sleeper with cords, and gagged him with cords; and shrieked
and famous, and most deadly immortal monster, Don; --but that would be too long
and foot, the still struggling ringleader was shoved up into the air by his
and savage seas far from you to the westward, gentlemen, is it altogether
and sweep down the planks, and also a shovel, and remove some offensive
and then, without at all alluding to the shovel, he pointed to three lads as
anxious.  Much this way had it been with the Town-Ho; so when her leak was
any already ireful being --a repugnance most felt, when felt at all, by
any?"  But there was none in the forecastle.  "Then I must get some from old
anything in short but a surrender.  And what was more, they each insisted
as he was by his spasmodic toil at the pumps, for all his first nameless
as he was tucking the coat into his hammock for a pillow.  Twenty-four hours
as malicious.  He did not love Steelkilt, and Steelkilt knew it.  Espying the
as ready to change his berth for a boat, and with his bandaged mouth seek to
astern from the whirlpool; calmly looking on, he thought his own thoughts.
at the furthest after pointing her prow for her island haven, that the
attitude, it was well known, he sometimes dozed.  There was a considerable
band of whites necessitated, both by night and by day, and so extreme was the
barricade, and striding up and down there, defied the worst the pistols could
be done in the case of ships actually foundering at the time.  Such,
before them, "the vultures would not touch ye, ye villains!"  At sunrise he
behind the barricade.  "come out of that, ye pirates!" roared the captain,
belonging to our grand Erie Canal.  You must have heard of it." "Nay, Senor;
below, a clamor was heard in the forecastle; and the two trembling traitors
between the two men.  But there was more than this: the order about the
blinding foam that blent two whitenesses together; till of a sudden the boat
blood like a whale.  Ere the cry could go aft Steelkilt was shaking one of
bloodshot, and wiping the profuse sweat from his brow.  Now what cozening
blue morning sea.  Gentlemen, a strange fatality pervades the whole career of
boat which was hoisted up there, a little above the ship's side.  In this
boy's business; he might have known me before this; I told him not to prick
braiding something very carefully in his watches below.  "What are you making
bubbling from
bulwarks of the quarter-deck, and leaning his arm upon the gunwale of the
but do whales have christenings?  Whom call you Moby Dick?" "A very white,
but raging gales is regularly attended to every evening; it has been known to
by the gods.  Immediately the hammer touched the cheek; the next instant the
called for the steward to bring the heavy brass padlock, belonging to the
cannon from the bows; stacked his muskets on the poop; and warning the
captain.  "Cross your arms, sir; throw back your head.  Now, repeat after
captain.  "Where are you bound?  and for what are you bound?" demanded
casks in a line with the windlass, these sea-Parisians entrenched themselves
chicha upon his silvery ruffles.  "No need to travel!  The world's one Lima.  I
chicha's very fine; and ere proceeding further I will tell ye what our
civilized creature resided.  There, headed by the Lakeman, all but five or
claim our discharge as soon as the anchor is down; so we don't want a row;
clanking at intervals through the dreary night dismally resounded through the
close up to the revolving border of the confusion, and prying into the heart
closely netted, partly rolled from the pocket of the Lakeman's monkey jacket,
club hammer which he had snatched from a cask near by.  Heated and irritated
collared, and dragged along the deck like dead cattle; and, side by side,
come; and in
coming still closer to him, where the Lakeman stood fixed, now shook the
commanding him to do his bidding.  Steelkilt rose, and slowly retreating
companion-way.  Then opening the slide a little, the Captain whispered
comprehended when the mate uttered his command.  But as he sat still for a
conceives an unconquerable dislike and bitterness; and if he have a chance
consequently he should have been freed from any trivial business not connected
continual stream of Venetianly corrupt and often lawless life.  There's your
contrasting scenery of those noble Mohawk counties; and especially, by rows of
conveniently imagine, gentlemen.  Therefore when he betrayed this solicitude
conventional world of ours --watery or otherwise; that when a person placed
crew.  Entreaties, cuffs, and kicks could not drive them back, so at their
cried the ringleader to his men.  Most of them were against it; but at
cutting and slashing at the bottom; making improvements, I suppose.  If old
damning thing he would have done.  It was just between daybreak and sunrise of
dared not attempt, he snatched the rope and advanced to his pinioned foe.
day his craft first struck the cruising ground; and Radney the mate was quite
death would be the signal for a murderous mutiny on the part of all hands.
deliberately repeated his intention not to obey.  Seeing, however, that his
den, growlingly disappearing, like bears into a cave.  As the Lakeman's bare
desisted, but still commanded the insurgents instantly to return to their
desperation possible, seize the ship.  For himself, he would do this, he said,
discretion.  Emboldened by this, the Captain reiterated his demand to the
distance, Moby Dick rose again, with some tatters of Radney's red woollen
do not bow and look surprised; you know the proverb all along this coast
do; but gave the captain to understand distinctly, that his (Steelkilt's)
domineering and outrageous manner unconditionally reiterating his command;
don't be a fool; forget it all; we are ready to turn to; treat us decently,
down with a whale-pike, calling upon his officers to manhandle that atrocious
duty.  "Will you promise not to touch us, if we do?" demanded their
emphatically evinced by this; that our wild whale-fishery contains so many of
ensued; while standing out of harm's way, the valiant captain danced up and
evening at the pumps, there was on this head no small gamesomeness slily
events Steelkilt was a tall and noble animal with a head like a Roman, and a
events, he had proved so thus far; but Radney was doomed and made mad, and
excitement of the moment, the Teneriffe man had instinctively and
father.  But Radney, the mate, was ugly as a mule; yet as hardy, as stubborn,
feeling of forbearance the sweating Steelkilt could but ill brook this bearing
fields, unrivalled for fertility; by billiard-room and bar-room; through
fiend it was, gentlemen, that possessed Radney to meddle with such a man in
fifty yards of the ship --forgetful of the compact among the crew --in the
file-fish, and what not; and the whole posse of 'em are now hard at work
flog them all round --thought, upon the whole, he would do so --he ought to
flowery Nile, he indolently floats, openly toying with his red-cheeked
flowing golden beard like the tasseled housings of your last viceroy's
for a voyage of considerable length; that is, if it lie along a tolerably
for you, my fine bantam, that wouldn't give up.  Take that gag from his mouth,
forbearance had not the slightest effect, by an awful and unspeakable
found gaining once more, there was in truth some small concern manifested by
four men burst up from the forecastle, saying they were ready to turn to.
frighten me" --and the Captain drew off with the rope to strike.  "Best not,"
gag in death the vital jaw of the whale.  But though the Lakeman had induced
gaining the forecastle deck, where, hastily slewing about three or four large
gentlemen, is the inflexibility of sea-usages and the instinctive love of
gentlemen, stole over Steelkilt.  Therefore, in his ordinary tone, only a
going on among them, as they stood with their feet continually overflowed by
had thought, now, that at your temperate North the generations were cold and
handful, the captain called upon the Islanders to assist him in the laborious
handspikes, my hearties.  Captain, by God, look to yourself; say the word;
hard work they underwent, that upon the vessel being ready again for sea,
have shipped for the cruise, d'ye see; now as you well know, sir, we can
have touched at a low isle of corals.  He steered away from it; but the
he had now forborne as much as comported with his humor, the Lakeman paused
he will pull down and pulverize that subaltern's tower, and make a little
head was just level with the planks,
heads sideways, as the two crucified thieves are drawn.  "My wrist is
heap of dust of it.  Be this conceit of mine as it may, gentlemen, at all
heard which denotes the fullest tension of life's utmost energies.  Quitting
heave to, or he would run him under water.  the captain presented a pistol.
heavy hammer within an inch of his teeth; meanwhile repeating a string of
her captain was just as willing to lower for a fish that moment, as on the
him a moment, and then said: --"I tell you what it is now, Captain, rather
himself in the end, shipmate?" and going to the mate, he looked at him
himself; particularly as his two comrades would not yield, the one to the
his arm towards him.  "there are a few of us here (and I am one of them) who
his duty to sit next him, while Radney stood
his eye on the Captain, and jerking out such sentences as these: --"It's not
his own canal, I have received good turns from one of these Canallers; I
hissed the Lakeman.  "But I must," --and the rope was once more drawn back for
hole at the next summoning of the garrison; and armed with their keen
holy as the hills. --But the story."  I left off, gentlemen, where the Lakeman
honor of securing a man who had been fully ripe for murder.  But all these were
in command over his fellow-men finds one of them to be very significantly his
in order to be the first of the three, though the last of the ten, to
in the mate; but somehow still smothering the conflagration within him,
incensed Radney shook the hammer within a few inches of his face, furiously
infatuated man sought to run more than half way to meet his doom, after the
insufferable maledictions.  Retreating not the thousandth part of an inch;
intimation with his twisted hand he warned off the foolish and infatuated man;
into a doze, verbally opened their souls to each other in three sentences;
into the sea, on the other flank of the whale.  He struck out through the
invested in looking-glasses.  I wonder if he'd give a poor devil like me the
involuntarily lifted his voice for the monster, though for some little time
island, and remain there six days.  If I do not, may lightnings strike me!"
it turned out, seizing a large double war-canoe of the savages, and setting
it's not our interest; we want to be peaceable; we are ready to work, but we
its most finished graduates, and that scarce any race of mankind, except
knife to the line.  He cut it; and the whale was free.  But, at some
last hailed him, and maddened by his long entombment in a place as black as
last place it was feared the insurgents might emerge, after breaking through
laughed Don Sebastian.  "Proceed, Senor." "A moment!  Pardon!" cried another
leader, each in his own separate soul had suddenly lighted, it would seem,
lee scupper-holes.  Now, as you well know, it is not seldom the case in this
length, in obedience to Steelkilt, they preceded him down into their dark
little broken by the bodily exhaustion he was temporarily in, he answered him
little inclined to any sort of nervous apprehensiveness touching his own
little of your vigorous North." "Aye?  Well then, Don, refill my cup.  Your
looks faint; --fill up his empty glass!"  No need, gentlemen; one moment, and
lower jaw of the mate was stove in his head; he fell on the hatch spouting
mainly at Steelkilt's instigation, they had resolved to maintain the
mate drawing near as he was toiling at the pump with the rest, the Lakeman
mate.  That instant, as he fell on the whale's slippery back, the boat
mates, and harpooneers, who, undeterred by fearful rumors, were all anxious
matters consequent upon allowing a pig to run at large.  Now, gentlemen,
me board you a moment --I come in peace."  With that he leaped from the canoe,
me.  As soon as Steelkilt leaves me, I swear to beach this boat on yonder
meanwhile advancing upon the still seated Lakeman, with an uplifted cooper's
metropolitan freebooters
might merit.  But when Steelkilt made known his determination still to lead
mincing knives (long, crescentic, heavy implements with a handle at each end)
mind it well--- if you flog me, I murder you!" "Say ye so?  then see how ye
mixed their before secret treacheries together; and when their leader fell
model of his nose." "Damn your eyes!  what's that pump stopping for?" roared
moment, and as he steadfastly looked into the mate's malignant eye and
more at the pumps every day.  You must know that in a settled and civilized
most abound in holiest vicinities.  "Is that a friar passing?" said Don
mumbling something about his being willing and able to do what the captain
mutineer made a tremulous motion of his cramped jaws, and then painfully
neatness in seamen; some of whom would not willingly drown without first
neutral.  All night a wide-awake watch was kept by all the officers, forward
next door to you; under the long-flung shadow, and the snug patronizing lee
now menacing them with a pistol in each hand, just brought to him by the
now!"  And with that the pump clanged like fifty fire-engines; the men tossed
number --leaving on deck some twenty or more, who thus far had remained
ocean like our Atlantic, for example, some skippers think little of pumping
of all her other perils, the Town-Ho still maintained her mast-heads, and
of churches.  For by some curious fatality, as it is often noted of your
of command.  Moreover, when the four boats were lowered, the mate's got the
of his heart.  He was in Radney the chief mate's watch; and as if the
of it with his pike, sought to prick out the object of his resentment.  But
of seven of his former associates, and stung by the mocking voice that had
of the boat's bottom, the Lakeman had slackened the line, so as to drop
of the company.  "In the name of all us Limeese, I but desire to express to
of the hull and tow it home.  The fact is, boys, that sword-fish only began
of the two traitors, till they yelled no more, but lifelessly hung their
officer of the deck happen to forget his duty in that respect, the
on account of all hands gently subsiding to the bottom.  Nor in the solitary
on the hatches and thus spoke to the officer: "Mr. Radney, I will not obey
one.  In sum, gentlemen, what the wildness of this canal life is, is
only when a leaky vessel is in some very out of the way part of those waters,
or nothing all day.  To this, Radney replied with an oath, in a most
other circumstances, Steelkilt systematically built the plan of his revenge.
other, in the matter; and both of them could not be first, for the ladder
our fault; we didn't want it; I told him to take his hammer away; it was
out for the Captain at midnight.  Thinking murder at hand, and smelling in
own counsel (at least till all was over) concerning his own proper and
own instance they were put down in the ship's run for salvation.  Still, no
panting, and sat himself down on the windlass; his face fiery red, his eyes
past it had been plainly beheld from the three sullen mast-heads.  All was now
perceived the stacks of powder-casks heaped up in him and the slow-match
perfidious allies, who at once claimed the
person as any fearless, unthinking creature on land or on sea that you can
playing the devil with his estate, I can tell him.  But he's a simple old
plentiful than billiard-tables, and for ever open--and Corrupt as Lima.
point, gentlemen, that enraged by the defection
prescriptive province of the boys, if boys there be aboard.  Besides, it was
prime redeeming qualities of your man of violence, that at times he has as
private revenge upon the man who had stung him in the ventricles
probability would be that he and his shipmates would never again remember it,
promises, turn to, I say!" "Look ye, now," cried the Lakeman, flinging out
pumps clanged as before.  Just after dark that day, when one watch had retired
quietly, and asked him for some twine to mend his hammock.  It was given him
raised a pistol.  "Sink the ship?" cried Steelkilt.  "Aye, let her sink.  Not
rapidly two or three times, and then suddenly throwing down his rope, said,"I
rather oddish," said the Lakeman, holding it at arm's length before him;
reached port, desert her in a body.  But in order to insure the speediest end
really valiant men even when aggrieved --this nameless phantom feeling,
repeated; but on the fourth morning a confused wrangling, and then a
response.  The Lakeman now patrolled the barricade, all the while keeping
rest, but Steelkilt shouted up to him a terrific hint to stop his babbling
returned to the quarter-deck.  Twice every day for three days this was
revenge he had, and without being the avenger.  For by a mysterious fatality,
righted, and was dashed aside by the swell, while Radney was tossed over
ringleader.
round the windlass, steadily followed by the mate with his menacing hammer,
running up, besieged the cabin door, saying they durst not consort with the
rural boys and young men born along its line, the probationary life of the
sail for some other harbor.  The ship's company being reduced to but a
savage craft bore down on him; and soon the voice of Steelkilt hailed him to
saved the would-be murderer from the bloody deed he had planned.  Yet complete
saying that sweeping the deck was not his business, and he would not do it.
scene at the rigging, he insisted, against the express counsel of the captain,
scene.  Such was the state of his mouth, that he could hardly speak; but
scoundrel, and smoke him along to the quarter-deck.  At intervals, he ran
scuffling was heard, as the customary summons was delivered; and suddenly
seas.  "I see!  I see!  " impetuously exclaimed Don Pedro, spilling his
seems, in a boat.  And now his bandaged cry was, to beach him on the whale's
setting the sail of his best whale-boat, steered straight before the wind for
several of her company; especially by radney the mate.  He commanded the
ship.  at sunrise the captain went forward, and knocking on the deck,
shirt, caught in the teeth that had destroyed him.  All four boats gave chase
shook the back-stay.  Hardly had he done so, when he was surrounded by the
shouted out, "There she rolls!  there she rolls!"  Jesu, what a whale!  It
shovel was almost as plainly meant to sting and insult Steelkilt, as though
sign of mutiny reappeared among the rest.  On the contrary, it seemed, that
silently burning along towards them; as he instinctively saw all this, that
since the blow, he had lain in his berth; but that morning, hearing the
six of the foremast-men deliberately deserted among the palms; eventually, as
slide of the scuttle, planted their group of hands upon it, and loudly
snorting charger; and a brain, and a heart, and a soul in him, gentlemen,
snow-white chapels, whose spires stand almost like milestones, flows one
some really landless latitude, that her captain begins to feel a little
something down the crack, closed it, and turned the key upon them --ten in
soul, -- Rad, and a beauty too.  Boys, they say the rest of his property is
spear in hand, Radney sprang to the bow.  He was always a furious man, it
sports; his slouched and gaily-ribboned hat betoken his grand features.  A
sprained with ye!" he cried, at last; "but there is still rope enough left
spray, and, for an instant, was dimly seen through that veil, wildly seeking
stabbing him in the eye with the unflinching poniard of his glance,
start; and none howled more fiercely with delight than did Steelkilt, as he
steelkilt, clenching his right hand behind him and creepingly drawing it back,
steward.  "Come out of that, ye cut-throats!"  Steelkilt leaped on the
stiff an arm to back a poor stranger in a strait, as to plunder a wealthy
still remained at their duty toiling hard at the pumps, whose clinking and
strained at his oar.  After a stiff pull, their harpooneer got fast, and,
strange forbearance and unwillingness to stir up the deeper passionateness in
stretched as a corpse, with his forehead crushed in.  But, gentlemen, a fool
strictest peacefulness, obey all orders to the last, and, when the ship
struck as against a sunken ledge, and keeling over, spilled out the standing
substituting present Lima for distant Venice in your corrupt comparison.  Oh!
sudden maelstrom; seized the swimmer between his jaws; and rearing high up
summoned all hands; and separating those who had rebelled from those who had
summoned the prisoners to work; but with a yell they refused.  Water was
superior in general pride of manhood, straightway against that man he
surrender, he would let them go with a reprimand, which he accordingly
surrender; and thereby secure whatever small chance of pardon such conduct
swam to the boat; and climbing the gunwale, stood face to face with the
swart visage and bold swagger are not unshunned in cities.  Once a vagabond on
sweeping a ship's deck at sea is a piece of household work which in all times
taken no part in the mutiny, he told the former that he had a good mind to
terror to the smiling innocence of the villages through which he floats; his
than kill ye, and be hung for such a shabby rascal, we won't lift a hand
thank him heartily; would fain be not ungrateful; but it is often one of the
that corporeally exasperated state, I know not; but so it happened.
that den.  but the scheme met with no opposition on the part of the other two;
that they ever encamp around the halls of justice, so sinners, gentlemen,
the Captain and his posse leaped the barricade, and rapidly drawing over the
the backstays leading far aloft to where two of his comrades were standing
the bowels of despair; it was then that Steelkilt proposed to the two
the breeze.  Now this Radney, I suppose, was as little of a coward, and as
the buffalo; I believe I have broken a finger here against his cursed jaw;
the bulkhead below.  But the hours of darkness passed in peace; the men who
the customary sweepers; who, not being billeted at the pumps, had done little
the dark for the blood, he and all his armed mates and harpooneers rushed for
the fore-ordaining soul of Steelkilt, the mate was already stark and
the grave always ready dug to the seaman's hand --that fatal hour was then to
the holy-of-holies of great forests; on Roman arches over Indian rivers;
the job; he's come back again with a gang of ship-carpenters, saw-fish, and
the morning of the second day, when they were washing down the decks, that
the mutineers bolted up into the air from the desperate arms below that sought
the pump at last, with the rest of his band, the Lakeman went forward all
the pumps ran across the deck, and poured itself out in steady spouts at the
the rippling clear water; clear as any mountain spring, gentlemen --that
the seamen to adopt this sort of passiveness in their conduct, he kept his
the ship, by knocking off at a time like this?  Turn to!" and he once more
the state of New York; through numerous populous cities and most thriving
the stroke.  Steelkilt here hissed out something, inaudible to all but the
the stronger men in the Town-Ho that had been divided into gangs, taking
the uproar, and sought to drag their man out of it towards the forecastle.
their hats off to it, and ere long that peculiar gasping of the lungs was
their mast-heads.  They were both Canallers.  "Canallers!" cried Don Pedro,
their whole way across it; though of a still, sleepy night, should the
them in so heavy a vessel.  After taking counsel with his officers, he
them to the last, they in some way, by some subtle chemistry of villany,
then lowered down to them, and a couple of handfuls of biscuit were tossed
there?" said a shipmate.  "What do you think?  what does it look like?"
these events, as if verily mapped out before the world itself was charted.
these miscreants must come out.  Upon hearing the frantic project of their
they hung till morning.  "Damn ye," cried the Captain, pacing to and fro
they were in such a weakened condition that the captain durst not put off with
this effeminacy is dashed.  The brigandish guise which the Canaller so proudly
threat, whatever that might have been.  The three men were then cut down,
three junior mates and the four harpooneers, who all crowded him to the deck.
through sun and shade; by happy hearts or broken; through all the wide
time, the Town-Ho reached her port --a savage, solitary place --where no
to capture so famous and precious a fish; while the dogged crew eyed askance,
to remove himself from the eye of Moby Dick.  But the whale rushed round in a
to restrain them.  Only three were left.  "Better turn to, now?" said the
to scorn; assuring him that if the pistol so much as clicked in the lock, he
to the three men in the rigging --"for you, I mean to mince ye up for the
to the voyage, they all agreed to another thing --namely, not to sing out for
topmost back.  Nothing loath, his bowsman hauled him up and up, through a
treated, this Steelkilt had long been retained harmless and docile.  At all
true Ashantee, gentlemen; there howl your pagans; where you ever find them,
try-pots;" and, seizing a rope, he applied it with all his might to the backs
tumult on the deck, he had crept out, and thus far had watched the whole
turns at the pumps; and being the most athletic seaman of them all,
twisting round his head, said in a sort of hiss, "What I say is this --and
understand this; and all this and doubtless much more, the Lakeman fully
unusual for ships to keep clanging at their pump-handles in full chorus even
up with his lance in the prow, and haul in or slacken the line, at the word
upon being the first man on deck, when the time to make the rush should come.
upon the same piece of treachery, namely: to be foremost in breaking out,
upper sails to be well hoisted, sheeted home anew, and every way expanded to
us, we won't do a hand's turn." "Down into the forecastle then, down with
vacancy between the boat and the ship, and down between this was the sea.
vigilance over their dangerous allies was this small
villages; through long, dismal, uninhabited swamps, and affluent, cultivated
was Moby Dick.  "Moby Dick!" cried Don Sebastian; "St.  Dominic!  Sir sailor,
was in the very act of striking, when another hiss stayed his uplifted arm.
washing their faces.  But in all vessels this broom business is the
were hurrying to execute the order,
were seized up into the mizen rigging, like three quarters of meat, and there
whales, in case any should be discovered.  For, spite of her leak, and spite
what, men, old Rad's investment must go for it!  he had best cut away his part
whether they joined him or not.  That was the last night he should spend in
which had made Steelkilt Charlemagne, had he been born son to Charlemagne's
which he had been betrayed.  At his leisure, he employed the interval in
wicked is he.  Like Mark Antony, for days and days along his green-turfed,
windlass; when, resolved at last no longer to retreat, bethinking him that
with him, plunged headlong again, and went down.  Meantime, at the first tap
without speaking he remained doggedly rooted to his seat, till at last the
won't be flogged." "Turn to!" roared the Captain.  Steelkilt glanced round
won't do it --let him go--cut him down: d'ye hear?"  But as the junior mates
would bury him in bubbles and foam.  "What do you want of me?  cried the
would but admit one man at a time.  And here, gentlemen, the foul play of
would come round at two o'clock, in the morning of the third day from that in
would murder him.  But, gentlemen, the fool had been branded for the slaughter
ye, I'll keep ye there till ye're sick of it.  Down ye go." "Shall we?"
ye, and let's have a taste.  By the Lord, it's worth bottling!  I tell ye
you, sir sailor, that we have by no means overlooked your delicacy in not
you.  Take that hammer away, or look to yourself."  But the predestinated mate
