



























    
     And I, you, and he; and we, ye, and they, are all bats; and I'm a crow,
     But Fedallah, putting a finger on his lip, slid over the bulwarks
     Drinking hot rum toddies with me every night, till he couldn't see to put on
     ENDERBY, OF LONDON Ship, ahoy!  Hast seen the White Whale?  So cried Ahab,
     Ere now it has been related how Ahab was
     Ere the English ship fades from sight, be
     Stood our old Sammy off to the northward, to get out of the blazing hot
     There's something ever egotistical in mountain-tops and towers, and all
     To begin: there's Aries, or the Ram --lecherous dog, he begets us; then,
     and at two cents the cigar, that's nine hundred and
     and there it stayed for a twelvemonth or more; when I gave him an emetic,
     clever things of that sort.  But I may as well say --en passant, as the French
     desperate.  Ha, ha!  old Ahab!  the White Whale; he'll nail ye!  This is a
     found something there in the vicinity of his thigh --I guess it's Sagittarius,
     get loose, or the tooth it was tangled to might draw (for I have
     give him your left arm for bait to get the right.  Do you know, gentlemen
     here they are --here they go --all alive: --Aries, or the Ram; Taurus, or the
     it last.  For it was set apart and sanctified to one awe-striking end; and
     oil, and bone, and blubber, were little short of audacity.  They know not the
     or any token of ever having been a wound -- Well, the captain there will tell
     rowing on the Line, --they only step to the deck to carry vast chains, and
     that is, Virtue and Vice; we try to reach Virtue, when lo!  comes Cancer
     the bright sun meets our glance half way, to cheer.  Yet, oh, the great sun
     the first harpoon, let this old great-grandfather have it.  But, Lord, look
     weighed and found wanting; and while we are very sad about that, Lord!  how
) it fitted out the first English
) our valiant Coffins and Maceys of Nantucket
, a fine ship, the
, this great whaling house was in existence, my numerous fish-documents
--Mounttop; Mounttop--the captain); --as I was saying, I jumped into Mounttop's
--as some call him --and then I knew it was he.  Did'st thou cross his wake
--avast heaving there!  Jump, boys, and swing over the cutting-tackle.  As
--fire worshipper, depend upon it.  Ho!  more and more.  This way comes Pip
--poor boy!  would he had died, or I; he's half horrible to me.  He too has
--the whale's tail looming straight up out of it, perpendicular in the air,
--very gravely and mathematically bowing to each Captain in succession -- Do
.. < chapter c 2  LEG AND ARM THE PEQUOD, OF NANTUCKET, MEETS THE SAMUEL >
.. < chapter ci 10  THE DECANTER >
.. < chapter xcix 30  THE DOUBLOON >
.. <p 425 >
.. <p 426 >
.. <p 426 >
.. <p 427 >
.. <p 428 >
.. <p 429 >
.. <p 430 >
.. <p 431 >
.. <p 432 >
.. <p 433 >
.. <p 434 >
.. <p 435 >
.. <p 436 >
.. <p 437 >
.. <p 438 >
.. <p 439 >
.. <p 440 >
.. <p 440 >
.. <p 441 >
Ahab.  And in the present instance, all this was heightened by the sight of
Amelia, fitted out for the express purpose, and at the sole charge of the
Archer, is amusing himself.  As we pluck out the shafts, stand aside; here's
Before this equatorial coin, Ahab, not unobserved by others, was now pausing.
Bull and Jimimi!  here's Gemini himself, or the Twins.  Well; the sun he
Bunger. (Bunger, you dog, laugh out!  why don't ye?  You know you're a
But I had no hand in shipping that ivory arm there; that thing is against all
But here a curious difficulty presented itself.  In the excitement of the
Cannibal?  As I live he's comparing notes; looking at his thigh bone; thinks
Captain Boomer here, stood our old Sammy-- Samuel Enderby is the name of
Captain Boomer's facetious interruption, that spite of my best and severest
Dick doesn't bite so much as he swallows.  Well, then, interrupted Bunger,
Englishman.  I was ignorant of the White Whale at that time.  Well, one day
Englishmen.  Oh!  cried the one-armed captain, Oh, yes!  Well; after he
Epitome calls the zodiac, and what my almanack below calls ditto.  I'll get
Greece, two thousand years ago, did die, so good, so wise, so mild; I
Hook, I'd not look at it very long ere spending it.  Humph!  in my poor,
I can stand the rest, for they have plain wits; but he's too crazy-witty
I didn't then know what whale it was that had served me such a trick, till
I jumped into my first mate's boat --Mr. Mounttop's here (by the way, Captain
I may as well, said the surgeon, coolly.  I was about observing, sir, before
Lion, lies in the path --he gives a few fierce bites and surly dabs with his
North and South Atlantic: not elsewhere.  Be it distinctly recorded here,
Oh!  my friends, but this is man-killing!  Yet this is life.  For hardly have
One day the planks stream with freshets of blood and oil; on the sacred
Popayan; with plenty of gold moidores and pistoles, and joes, and half joes,
Samuel Enderby, merchant of that city, the original of the famous whaling
Seeing how matters stood, and what a noble great whale it was --the noblest
Stubb.  Oh, jolly's the word for aye!  Adieu, Doubloon!  But stop; here comes
Taurus, or the Bull --he bumps us the first thing; then Gemini, or the Twins --
The firm tower, that is Ahab; the volcano, that is Ahab; the courageous, the
We all struck out.  To escape his terrible flailings, I seized hold of my
a bouncing great whale, with a milky-white head and hump, all crows' feet and
a critical glance at the ivory limbs of the two crippled captains.  But, at his
a devil of a boat's crew for a pull on a whale-line); seeing all this, I say,
a huzzar's surcoat.  Hast seen the White Whale?  See you this?  and
a ruthless crew and every hour passed by ruthless hands, and through the
a shocking bad wound, began the whale-surgeon; and, taking my advice,
a spacious roundabout, that hung round him in festoons of blue pilot-cloth;
after the second iron, to toss it overboard --down comes the tail like a Lima
again; what does that mean?  Hark!  he's muttering --voice like an old
again?  Twice.  But could not fasten?  Didn't want to try to: ain't one
against the bulwarks -- Man the boat!  Which way heading?  Good God!  cried
ages, you rascal.  What became of the White Whale?  now cried Ahab, who
almost hourly used to it, like whalemen --to clamber up a ship's side from a
aloft there, wheels through toil and trouble; and so, alow here, does jolly
along the bulwarks, and with buckets of water and rags restore them to their
alongside of the Pequod.
always what least allures.  He's all a magnet!  How long since thou saw'st him
an ingenious and very handy mechanical contrivance peculiar to the Pequod,
anchor, or the crotch of an apple tree), and then giving the word, held
and a thing not to be rigged and shipped in any other vessel at a moment's
and all aglow, as bridegrooms new-leaped from out the daintiest Holland.  Now,
and biggest I ever saw, sir, in my life --I resolved to capture him, spite of
and didn't know him then; but not to another one.  No more White Whales for
and goes to snapping furiously at my fast-line.  Aye, I see! --wanted to part
and he heaved it up in small tacks, d'ye see.  No possible way for him to
and mainmast; but in the multiplicity of other things requiring narration it
and one empty arm of this jacket streamed behind him like the broidered arm of
and quarter joes.  what then should there be in this doubloon of the Equator
and the Vineyard had in large fleets pursued that Leviathan, but only in the
and think to be happy for aye, when pop comes Libra, or the Scales --happiness
and whoever raises a certain whale, this round thing belongs to him.  So,
another chance at you shortly, that's all.  No, thank ye, Bunger, said the
any foulness, it still preserved its Quito glow.  Nor, though placed amongst
approach, nevertheless every sunrise found the doubloon where the sunset left
arithmetic, I'll try my hand at raising a meaning out of these queer
arm (like two sword-fish blades) cried out in his walrus way, Aye, aye,
arm off, did he?  asked Ahab, now sliding down from the capstan, and resting
arm towards the East, and taking a rueful sight along it, as if it had been a
as though now for the first time beginning to interpret for himself in some
at a piece of gold, which did I have it now on Negro Hill or in Corlaer's
away we sail to fight some other world, and go through young life's old
away.  The great hatch is scrubbed and placed upon the try-works, completely
aye --they were mine -- my irons, cried Ahab, exultingly -- but on!  Give me a
banners waving, are in luxuriant profusion stamped; so that the precious gold
bannisters.  But this awkwardness only lasted a minute, because the strange
be it, then.  Born in throes, 't is fit that man should live in pains and die
been all the time standing near them, with nothing specific visible, to
been watching all of these interpreters --myself included --and look now, he
before he wheeled out of a former equinox at Aries!  From storm to storm!  So
bend down our eyes, the dark vale shows her mouldy soil; but if we lift them,
beneath the great equator, and named after it; and it had been cast midway
besooted all the bulwarks; the mariners go about suffused with unctuousness;
between two of twelve sitting-rooms all in a ring.  Book!  you lie there; the
binnacle
binnacle, with his glance fastened on the pointed needle in the compass, that
blackberrying.  Cook!  ho, cook!  and cook us!  Jenny!  hey, hey, hey, hey,
blind as a bat --both eyes out --all befogged and bedeadened with black foam
blubber-hook, now clean and dry, was still attached to the end.  This was
boat on the open sea; for the great swells now lift the boat high up towards
boat, which, d'ye see, was gunwale and gunwale with mine, then; and snatching
bolts and the verdigris of copper spikes, yet, untouchable and immaculate to
bones stuck into a pair of old trowsers, and two more poked into the sleeves
bowl-like cavity in his skull, but which bore not the slightest scarry trace,
bright coin came from a country planted in the middle of the world, and
burly, good-natured, fine-looking man, of sixty or thereabouts, dressed in
but still sadly to me.  I will quit it, lest Truth shake me falsely.  There
by night, wondering whose it was to be at last, and whether he would ever
cabalistics, and the keystone sun entering the equinoctial point at Libra.
calendar, and Bowditch's navigator, and Daboll's arithmetic go.  Signs and
can shrink, d'ye see; and a leg that never can run.  Where did'st thou see
cannot solve itself.  Methinks now this coined sun wears a ruddy face; but
capstan head.  With his ivory arm frankly thrust forth in welcome, the other
captain advanced, and Ahab, putting out his ivory leg, and crossing the ivory
captain, observing at a glance how affairs stood, cried out, I see, I see!
captain; he never drinks it; it's a sort of fits to him; fresh water
caw!  Ain't I a crow?  And where's the scare-crow?  There he stands; two
chance, then, said the Englishman, good-humoredly.  Well, this old
chapter; and now I'll read it off, straight out of the book.  Come, Almanack!
clergy --am a strict total abstinence man; I never drink-- Water!  cried the
clinging to the side, that ley quickly exterminates it.  Hands go diligently
comes not far behind the united royal houses of the Tudors and Bourbons, in
comes to read,
concluded, then the crew themselves proceed to their own ablutions; shift
continued the one-armed commander, I do not know; but in biting the line, it
could go hang myself.  Any way, for the present, I'll quit Pip's vicinity.
cried Ahab, impetuously, and tossing about the oars near him -- Stand by to
cried Bunger,  stoopingly walking round Ahab, and like a dog, strangely
curing the wound, when whang come the arrows all round; Sagittarius, or the
cursed second iron towing along near me caught me here (clapping his hand
curvicues here with the Massachusetts calendar.  Here's the book.  Let's see
deafening.  But a day or two after, you look about you, and prick your ears
deck; think of having hangings to the top; object not to taking tea by
defilements, and learned to live here in clean tabernacles of the soul;
denote his gentlemanly rank on board.  His face was an exceedingly round but
dent, sir --removing his hat, and brushing aside his hair, and exposing a
did it get there?  And so they'll say in the resurrection, when they come to
die, you ought to die in pickle, you dog; you should be preserved to future
digest that jack-knife, and fully incorporate it into his general bodily
discourse of parlors, sofas, carpets, and fine cambrics; propose to mat the
do not make plain; but in that year (
earthly symbol.  So in this vale of Death, God girds us round; and over all
endeavors, the wound kept getting worse and worse; the truth was, sir, it
english captain, he's welcome to the arm he has, since I can't help it,
especially when I stand a'top of this pine tree here.  Caw!  caw!  caw!  caw!  caw!
every little untoward circumstance that befel him, and which indirectly
fact is, you books must know your
finally bestirred themselves to cleanse the ship, and make a spotless dairy
first, the white hump backed through the wreck, as though it was all chips.
fish up this old mast, and find a doubloon lodged in it, with bedded oysters
fish.  But a combing sea dashed me off, and at the same instant, the fish,
foolish look to it; yet, if it be really foolish, then has it a sort of
for an old button off some king's trowsers.  But, aside again!  here comes
for my sanity.  So, so, I leave him muttering.  Here's the ship's navel,
for the shaggy bark.  Oh, the gold!  the precious, precious gold! --the green
found a silver ring grown over in it; some old darkey's wedding ring.  How
from him, we gaze for him in vain!  This coin speaks wisely, mildly, truly,
from the ashes of the burned scraps of the whale, a potent ley is readily
full tidiness.  The soot is brushed from the lower rigging.  All the numerous
glance shot like a javelin with the pointed intensity of his purpose; and
glass, to each and every man in turn but mirrors back his own mysterious
gold.  And what's the horse-shoe sign?  The lion is the horse-shoe sign --the
good God, the barb ript its way along the flesh --clear along the whole length
good luck would have it, they had had a whale alongside a day or two
gorgeous hills, whence, east and west, over golden sands, the head-waters of
got foul of his teeth, caught there somehow; but we didn't know it then; so
great glory in killing him, I know that; and there is a ship-load of
great-grandfather, with the white head and hump, runs all afoam into the pod,
hardly is this done, when -- There she blows! --the ghost is spouted up, and
harpoon-pole sticking in him, and for a moment clung to that like a sucking
has not been added how that sometimes in these walks, when most plunged in
have left their mouldings there since yesterday, murmured Starbuck to
have to say.  There; he's before it; he'll out with something presently.  So,
he could hardly hope to attain.  It has before been hinted, perhaps, that
he held in one hand, and a pill-box held in the other, occasionally casting
he only thinks to terrify by feints.  But sometimes he is like the old
he was standing in the boat's stern, and the Manilla men were springing to
he's been studying Murray's Grammar!  Improving his mind, poor fellow!  But
headlong we are tossed; when Aquarius, or the Water-bearer, pours out his
hearse-driver, he must have been, that is, before he took to the sea.  He
hearty!  let us shake bones together! --an arm and a leg! --an arm that never
heave the heavy windlass, and cut and slash, yea, and in their very
here's nine hundred and sixty of them; so here goes Flask aloft to spy 'em
here's signs and wonders truly!  That, now, is what old Bowditch in his
hey, Jenny, Jenny!  and get your hoe-cake done!
hiding the pots; every cask is out of sight; all tackles are coiled in
him nights; was very severe with him in the matter of diet-- Oh, very
him to completely digest even a
himself fast, and at the same time also helped to hoist his own weight, by
himself, leaning against the bulwarks.  The old
his crew were dropped to the water, and were soon alongside of the stranger.
his mood, he was wont to pause in turn at each spot, and stand there
his mother did; he was born with it.  Oh, you solemn rogue, you --you Bunger!
hours; when from the boat, where they have swelled their wrists with all day
house of enderby and sons; a house which in my poor whaleman's opinion,
however wanton in their sailor ways, one and all, the mariners revered it as
hump!  instead of the other whale's that went off to windward, all fluking.
hunted, for all that.  What is best let alone, that accursed thing is not
implements which have been in use are likewise faithfully cleansed and put
in my diet.  Oh!  a great watcher, and very dietetically severe, is Dr.
in one kind of world, you see.  Dodge again!  here comes Queequeg --all
in pangs!  So be it, then!  Here's stout stuff for woe to work on.  So be it,
in this self-same ship; and were it not for the tell-tale boats and
inches long.  I measured it with the lead line.  In short, it grew black; I
inscrutably constructed by Divine Providence, that it is quite impossible for
insignificant opinion, I regard this as queer.  I have seen doubloons before
inspectingly.  He goes below; let me read.  A dark valley between three
is no fixture; and if, at midnight, we would fain snatch some sweet solace
is ugly, too, for when aught's nailed to the mast it's a sign that things grow
it every year, and yet comes out of it all alive and hearty.  Jollily he,
it set down here, that she hailed from London, and was named after the late
it!  Look you, Doubloon, your zodiac here is the life of man in one round
it; and there goes Starbuck from the same, and both with faces which I
it; free the fast-fish --an old trick --I know him.  How it was exactly,
juggling fellow, formerly a patient of mine in Ceylon, that making believe
just below his shoulder); yes, caught me just here, I say, and bore me down
knew what was threatened, and off it came.
labors, which know no night; continuing straight through for ninety-six
last?  Which way heading?  Bless my soul, and curse the foul fiend's,
least; and that leg, too?  Spin me the yarn, said Ahab; how was it?  It
letters you saw the likeness of three Andes' summits; from one a flame; a
like a marble steeple.  No use sterning all, then; but as I was groping at
limb enough?  What should I do without this other arm?  And I'm thinking Moby
little King-Post; dodge round the try-works, now, and let's hear what he'll
live to spend it.  Now those noble golden coins of South America are as
livelong nights shrouded with thick darkness which might cover any pilfering
look, they look.  Why, he's getting it by heart --hist!  again.  I look,
look, you look, he looks; we look, ye look, they look.  Upon my soul,
lower!  In less than a minute, without quitting his little craft, he and
luffs up before the doubloon; halloa, and goes round on the other side of the
made; and whenever any adhesiveness from the back of the whale remains
malice is only his awkwardness.  For he never means to swallow a single limb;
man seems to read Belshazzar's awful writing.  I have never marked the coin
man's arm?  And he knows it too.  So that what you take for the White Whale's
many a Pactolus flows.  And though now nailed amidst all the rustiness of iron
mast; why, there's a horse-shoe nailed on that side; and now he's back
me; I've lowered for him once, and that has satisfied me.  There would be
medals of the sun and tropic token-pieces.  Here palms, alpacas, and
men intent on spying out more whales, which, if caught, infallibly will again
midday, with a blinding sun, all crown-jewels; as I was groping, I say,
mighty, heaven-abiding peaks, that almost seem the Trinity, in some faint
mind to pawn one arm for the sake of the privilege of giving decent burial to
mine once.  He flies into diabolical passions sometimes.  Do ye see this
miser 'll hoard ye soon!  Hish!  hish!  God goes 'mong the worlds
moment, Ahab had forgotten that since the loss of his leg he had never once
monomaniac way whatever significance might lurk in them.  And some certain
moonlight on the piazza of the forecastle.  To hint to such musked mariners of
my ship, interrupted the one-armed captain, addressing Ahab; go on, boy.
nations to lower a whale-boat of any sort in the great South Sea.  The
never look so white as just after what they call an affair of oil.  Besides,
not hopefulness.  But one morning, turning to pass the doubloon, he seemed
not mine; he ordered the carpenter to make it; he had that club-hammer there
now in my voyagings; your doubloons of old Spain, your doubloons of Peru,
now's the old Mogul, soliloquized Stubb by the try-works, he's been twigging
now.  Signs and wonders; and the sun, he's always among 'em.  Hem, hem, hem;
of an old jacket.  Wonder if he means me? --complimentary! --poor lad! --I
of my arm --came out nigh my wrist, and up i floated; --and that gentleman
of tastefully-ornamented man-ropes; for at first they did not seem to bethink
of the yarn.  The professional gentleman thus familiarly pointed out, had
on the Englishman's shoulder, as he did so.  Aye, he was the cause of it, at
once more hailing a ship showing English colors, bearing down under the
only makes a sign to the sign and bows himself; there is a sun on the coin
or the Archer.  No: he don't know what to make of the doubloon; he takes it
other grand and lofty things; look here, --three peaks as proud as Lucifer.
our gloom, the sun of Righteousness still shines a beacon and a hope.  If we
out.  Shall I call that wise or foolish, now; if it be really wise it has a
passing through those fancy mints, so Spanishly poetic.  It so chanced that
paw; we escape, and hail Virgo, the Virgin!  that's our first love; we marry
people of the whole globe who so harpooned him.  In
perceived, respected sir --said the imperturbable godly-looking Bunger,
perhaps one of the most remarkable incidents in all the business of whaling.
perpendicular ladder of nailed cleets there, and swinging towards him a pair
pine tree.  My father, in old Tolland county, cut down a pine tree once, and
places.  You'll do to give us the bare words and facts, but we come in to
pocket, and drawing near to Ahab's arm.  Avast!  roared Ahab, dashing him
point of real historical interest.  How long, prior to the year of our Lord 0083
point! --his pulse makes these planks beat! --sir! --taking a lancet from his
pointing his ivory
politely bowed, and straightway went on to do his captain's bidding.  It was
possesses a singularly cleansing virtue.  This is the reason why the decks
precious jolly rascal.) But, heave ahead, boy, I'd rather be killed by you
precious sperm in him, but, hark ye, he's best let alone; don't you think
previous, and the great tackles were still aloft, and the massive curved
pulling hand-over-hand upon one of the running parts of the tackle.  Soon he
put to the end, to knock some one's brains out with, I suppose, as he tried
quarter-boat, his ivory leg plainly revealed to the stranger captain, who
quarter-deck enormous masses of the whale's head are profanely piled; great
quickly lowered to Ahab, who at once comprehending it all, slid his solitary
raised, it must be in a month and a day, when the sun stands in some one of
remark --that I myself --that is to say, Jack Bunger, late of the reverend
riveted glance fastened upon the riveted gold coin there, he still wore the
roaring and devouring lion.  Ship, old ship!  my old head shakes to think of
room of it; many is the time the poor fellows, just buttoning the necks of
round border it bore the letters, REPUBLICA DEL ECUADOR: QUITO.  So this
round gold is but the image of the rounder globe, which, like a magician's
round so, that my boat's crew could only trim dish, by sitting all their
round world itself but an empty cipher, except to sell by the cartload, as
routine again.  Oh!  the metempsychosis!  Oh!  Pythagoras, that in bright
rule --pointing at it with the marlingspike -- that is the captain's work,
rusty casks lie about, as in a brewery yard; the smoke from the try-works has
sailed with thee along the Peruvian coast last voyage -- and, foolish as I am,
same aspect of nailed firmness, only dashed with a certain wild longing, if
see!  aye, he enters the sign of storms, the equinox!  and but six months
seems almost to derive an added preciousness and enhancing glories, by
segment of the partitioned zodiac, the signs all marked with their usual
self.  Great pains, small gains for those who ask the world to solve them; it
severe!  chimed in the patient himself; then suddenly altering his voice,
ships that ever regularly hunted the Sperm Whale; though for some score of
should say might be somewhere within nine fathoms long.  And all from looking
significance lurks in all things, else all things are little worth, and the
sixty cigars.  I wont smoke dirty pipes like Stubb, but I like cigars, and
sleep.  There's a sermon now, writ in high heaven, and the sun goes through
slightly bowing to Ahab -- is apt to be facetious at times; he spins us many
snuffing; this man's blood --bring the thermometer; --it's at the boiling
so, Captain? --glancing at the ivory leg.  He is.  But he will still be
so, deprived of one leg, and the strange ship of course being altogether
so; he's beginning.  I see nothing here, but a round thing made of gold,
sober one; he was dressed in a faded blue woollen frock or shirt, and patched
soil the old oaken furniture, and drop at least one small grease-spot
some time afterwards, when coming back to the Line, we heard about Moby Dick
somewhere.  Yes; and many is the time, when, after the severest uninterrupted
sounded, we didn't see him again for some time; in fact, as I before hinted,
sperm whale bone, terminating in a wooden head like a mallet.  Man my boat!
sprang from his luckless mishap, almost invariably irritated or exasperated
steel the great Sperm Whale; and that for half a century they were the only
stepped on board of any vessel at sea but his own, and then it was always by
stern.  Trumpet to mouth, the old man was standing in his hoisted
sterns on the outer gunwale.  Presently up breaches from the bottom of the sea
strangely eyeing the particular object before him.  When he halted before the
stranger ship, and face set like a flint to his own, Ahab stood upright till
sun and the equatorial try-works; when, on the heel of all this, they have
superior's introduction of him to Ahab, he
supply the thoughts.  That's my small experience, so far as the Massachusetts
surgeon: Bunger, my lad, -- the captain).  Now, Bunger boy, spin your part
suspended breath.  And harpoons sticking in near his starboard fin.  Aye,
swallow jack-knives, once upon a time let one drop into him in good earnest,
sweatings to be smoked and burned anew by the combined fires of the equatorial
system.  Yes, Captain Boomer, if you are quick enough about it, and have a
taking one good dart forwards, went down like a flash; and the barb of that
tattooing --looks like the signs of the Zodiac himself.  What says the
taught thee, a green simple boy, how to splice a rope!
telescope; There I saw him, on the Line, last season.  And he took that
than kept alive by any other man.  My captain, you must have ere this
that ghost-devil, Fedallah; tail coiled out of sight as usual, oakum in the
that is so killing wonderful?  By Golconda!  let me read it once.  Halloa!
that the Nantucketers were the first among mankind to harpoon with civilized
that when we afterwards pulled on the line, bounce we came plump on to his
the Crab, and drags us back; and here, going from Virtue, Leo, a roaring
the English Captain, to whom the question was put.  What's the matter?  He
the White Whale? --how long ago?  The White Whale, said the Englishman,
the almanack and as I have heard devils can be raised with Daboll's
the bandages; and sending me to bed, half seas over, about three o'clock in
the battering-ram, Capricornus, or the Goat; full tilt, he comes rushing, and
the boiling rage he seemed to be in.  And thinking the hap-hazard line would
the bulwarks, and then instantaneously drop it half way down to the kelson.
the doubloon of the Pequod was a most wealthy example of these things.  On its
the entire ship seems great leviathan himself; while on all hands the din is
the entire ship's company, the whole of this conscientious duty is at last
the morning.  Oh, ye stars!  he sat up with me indeed, and was very severe
the old women talk Surgeon's Astronomy in the back country.  And by Jove, he's
the other, why in that case the arm is yours; only let the whale have
the sun is in the thigh, or in the calf, or in the bowels, I suppose, as
the sun then be?  The horse-shoe sign; for there it is, right opposite the
the two officers of the strange ship, leaning over the side, by the
the white whale's talisman.  Sometimes they talked it over in the weary watch
thee.  There's another rendering now; but still one text.  All sorts of men
their clean frocks, are startled by the cry of There she blows!  and away
their oars.  In vain the English Captain hailed him.  With back to the
them that a one-legged man must be too much of a cripple to use their sea
them; a regular circus horse he was, too, that went milling and milling
themselves from top to toe; and finally issue to the immaculate deck, fresh
then.  No fairy fingers can have pressed the gold, but devil's claws must
there will tell you the rest (by the way, captain --Dr.  Bunger, ship's
there, at the three mast heads, stand three
these signs.  I've studied signs, and know their marks; they were taught me
they do hills about Boston, to fill up some morass in the Milky Way.  Now
they fly to fight another whale, and go through the whole weary thing again.
thigh into the curve of the hook (it was like sitting in the fluke of an
thing you distantly allude to.  Away, and bring us napkins!  But mark: aloft
this doubloon here, and they are all on fire to unscrew it.  But, unscrew
this doubloon was of purest, virgin gold, raked somewhere out of the heart of
throws him into the hydrophobia; but go on --go on with the arm story.  Yes,
thus far had been impatiently listening to this bye-play between the two
to Hell's flames, I was thinking; when, when, all of a sudden, thank the
to a clumsy landsman again; hopelessly eyeing the uncertain changeful height
to be newly attracted by the strange figures and inscriptions stamped on it,
to take the boat's steering oar, and Ahab, swinging the cutting-tackle
toes of his pumps as usual.  What does he say, with that look of his?  Ah,
towards him, commanded the ship's sailors to stand by to lower.  In a moment
tower on another; on the third a crowing cock; while arching over all was a
tower, cutting my boat in two, leaving each half in splinters; and, flukes
trowsers; and had thus far been dividing his attention between a marlingspike
try-works, you would all but swear you trod some silent merchant vessel,
two score years ago, by the old witch in Copenhagen.  Now, in what sign will
undaunted, and victorious fowl, that, too, is Ahab; all are Ahab; and this
unseen nooks; and when by the combined and simultaneous industry of almost
unsupplied with the kindly invention, Ahab now found himself abjectly reduced
up the Andes, in the unwaning clime that knows no autumn.  Zoned by those
valuable sperm; and then, with weary patience, cleansed ourselves from its
vigorous Enderbys, boldly rounded Cape Horn, and was the first among the
volcanoes; sun's disks and stars; ecliptics, horns-of-plenty, and rich
warning.  Now, it is no very easy matter for anybody --except those who are
was as ugly gaping wound as surgeon ever saw; more than two feet and several
was carefully swung inside the high bulwarks, and gently landed upon the
was carelessly reclining in his own boat's bow.  He was a darkly-tanned,
was heading east, I think. --Is your Captain crazy?  whispering Fedallah.
was the first time in my life that I ever cruised on the Line, began the
was there ever such another Bunger in the watery world?  Bunger, when you
we lowered for a pod of four or five whales, and my boat fastened to one of
we mortals by long toilings extracted from the world's vast bulk its small but
we suddenly jump, as Scorpio, or the Scorpion, stings us in rear; we are
weather there on the Line.  But it was no use --I did all I could; sat up with
what's all this staring been about?  It is worth sixteen dollars, that's true;
what's that he says now -- hist!  I look, you look, he looks; we look, ye
wheels among 'em.  Aye, here on the coin he's just crossing the threshold
when resuming his walk he again paused before the mainmast, then, as the same
whole deluge and drowns us; and to wind up with Pisces, or the Fishes, we
wiseish look to it.  But, avast; here comes our old Manxman --the old
with a most scrupulously neat commander.  The unmanufactured sperm oil
with elated step, they pace the planks in twos and threes, and humorously
with that unearthly idiot face.  stand away again and hear him.  hark!  I
withdrawing it from the fold that had hidden it, he held up a white arm of
wonders!  There's a clue somewhere; wait a bit; hist--hark!  By Jove, I have
wonders, eh?  Pity if there is nothing wonderful in signs, and significant in
wont to pace his quarter-deck, taking regular turns at either limit, the
worn-out coffee-mill.  Prick ears, and listen!  If the White Whale be
wrinkles.  It was he, it was he!  cried Ahab, suddenly letting out his
years previous (ever since
you how that came here; he knows.  No, I don't, said the captain, but
you know, gentlemen, that the digestive organs of the whale are so
you look, he looks; we look, ye look, they look.  Well, that's funny.
you, sir --hearts and souls alive, man --the next instant, in a jiff, I was
your doubloons of Chili, your doubloons of Bolivia, your doubloons of
your navel, and what's the consequence?  Then again, if it stays here, that
