


















     Come on, Queequeg, said I, all right.  There's Mrs. Hussey.
     Dropping his harpoon, the brawny savage caught him in his arms, and by an
     For this reason a sleeping apartment should never be furnished with a fire,
     Hallo, you sir, cried the Captain, a gaunt rib of the sea, stalking up to
     He say, said I, that you came near kill-e that man there, pointing to the
     It was quite late in the evening when the
     Nothing more happened on the passage worthy
     Queequeg was a native of Kokovoko, an
     Stepping to the kitchen door, I uttered the word cod with great emphasis,
     We had lain thus in bed, chatting and
     and self-created darkness into the imposed and coarse outer gloom of the
     clam for two, disappeared.  Queequeg, said I, do you think that we can
     deep itself.  The Nantucketer, he alone resides and riots on the sea; he
     hand, whereas I had understood Peter Coffin to say it was on the starboard.
     that they are so shut up, belted about, every way inclosed, surrounded, and
     the island.  On one side was a coral reef; on the other a low tongue of
     what you tink now, --Didn't our people laugh?  At last, passage paid, and
     wheelbarrow next morning, Monday, after disposing of
     which a noah's flood would not interrupt, though it overwhelmed all the
.. < chapter xi 24  NIGHTGOWN >
.. < chapter xii 21  BIOGRAPHICAL >
.. < chapter xiii 2  WHEELBARROW >
.. < chapter xiv 23  NANTUCKET >
.. < chapter xv 27  CHOWDER >
.. <p 50 >
.. <p 51 >
.. <p 52 >
.. <p 52 >
.. <p 53 >
.. <p 54 >
.. <p 54 >
.. <p 55 >
.. <p 56 >
.. <p 57 >
.. <p 58 >
.. <p 59 >
.. <p 60 >
.. <p 61 >
.. <p 61 >
.. <p 62 >
.. <p 63 >
.. <p 63 >
.. <p 64 >
.. <p 65 >
.. <p 66 >
And so it turned out; Mr. Hosea Hussey being from home, but leaving Mrs.
Christians could be both miserable and wicked; infinitely more so, than all
Church.  How then could I unite with
Eddystone lighthouse.  Look at it --a mere hillock, and elbow of sand; all
English overswarm all India, and hang out their blazing banner from the sun;
God.  Now, Queequeg is my fellow man.  And what do I wish that this Queequeg
He answered no, not yet; and added that he was fearful Christianity, or
He seemed to take to me quite as naturally and unbiddenly as I to him; and
His father was a High Chief, a King; his uncle a High Priest; and on the
Horn, that is --which was the only way he could get there --thrown among people
However, by dint of beating about a little in the dark, and now and then
Hussey entirely competent to attend to all his affairs.  Upon making known our
Hussey hurried towards an open door leading to the kitchen, and bawling out
Hussey's clam and cod announcement, I thought I would try a little experiment.
I began to be sensible of strange feelings.  I felt a melting in me.  No
I had found thrown over me upon waking in the morning, I thought this
I told him that whaling was my own design, and informed him of my intention
I, Queequeg, you might have known better than that, one would think.  Didn't
King's own house --the Captain coolly proceeds to wash his hands in the punch
Look now at the wondrous traditional story of how this island was settled by
Mastodon, clothed with such portentousness of unconscious power, that his
Nantucket are carried about like bits of the true cross in Rome; that people
Nantucket!  Take out your map and look at it.  See what a real corner of the
Oh, sweet friends!  hearken to me.  It was made of small juicy clams, scarcely
Poland.  Let America add Mexico to Texas, and pile Cuba upon Canada; let the
Queequeg no kill-e so small-e fish-e; Queequeg kill-e big whale!  Look you,
Queequeg smoking by me, even in bed, because he seemed to be full of such
Queequeg, for his own private reasons, preferred his own harpoon.  Shifting
Queequeg, what in thunder do you mean by that?  Don't you know you might have
Rokovoko, and its commander --from all accounts, a very stately punctilious
Tartar air! --how I spurned that turnpike earth! --that common highway all over
The landlord of the Spouter-Inn had recommended us to his cousin Hosea Hussey
There was excellent blood in his veins --royal stuff; though
Thought he, it's a wicked world in all meridians; I'll die a pagan.
Washington's head, as seen in the popular busts of him.  It had the same long
a ship --as having plain precedence over a mere island King, especially in the
about keeping a yellow warehouse on our starboard hand till we opened a white
about the thing --though in truth he was entirely so, concerning the precise
air; then slightly
all glittering in the clear, cold air.  Huge hills and mountains of casks on
almost in one ticking of a watch, and every instant seemed on the point of
almost miraculous dexterity and strength, sent him high up bodily into the
alone, in Bible language, goes down to it in ships; to and fro ploughing it
an excellent one.  It may seem ridiculous, but it reminded me of General
and bland deceits.  Wild he was; a very sight of sights to see; yet I began
and centre of all verdure.  Queequeg caught one of these young saplings
and earth --pagans and all included --can possibly be jealous of an
and hints, doing my best to talk with him meanwhile.  At first he little
and resumed my seat.  In a few moments the savory steam came forth again, but
and smoke, we went to our room together.  He made me a present of his
and snug, the more so since it was so chilly out of doors; indeed out of
and then flinging the other like a lasso, caught it round the boom as it swept
and then stopping to adjust the sheath on his harpoon barbs.  I asked him why
and thus an old idolator at heart, he yet lived among these Christians, wore
and tomahawk, he quietly offered me a puff.  And then we sat exchanging puffs
and we felt like getting up again, though day-break was yet some way down the
around him, seemed to be saying to himself -- It's a mutual, joint-stock
as his own special plantation.  There is his home; there lies his business,
as if it were the lower jaw of an exasperated whale.  In the midst of this
as strange to him as though he were in the planet Jupiter; and yet he seemed
asleep or awake, I have a way of always keeping my eyes shut, in order the
assaults!  And thus have these naked Nantucketers, these sea hermits, issuing
assented; for besides the affection I now felt for Queequeg, he was an
at Queequeg so much --for they were used to seeing cannibals like him in their
at such times look downwards to our platters, they, on the contrary, copying
be comfortable any more.  But if, like Queequeg and me in the bed, the tip
be the proprietor of one of the best kept hotels in all Nantucket, and
beach, without a background.  There is more sand there than you would use in
bed for confidential disclosures between friends.  Man and wife, they say,
bed-clothes too, seeing that there was no fire in the room.  The more so, I
bedfellows.  I told him yes; whereat I thought he looked pleased, perhaps a
before us.  We resumed business; and while plying our spoons in the
begged him to go on and tell it.  He gladly complied.  Though at the time I
begged his pardon.  From that hour I clove to Queequeg like a barnacle; yea,
being done; those on deck rushed towards the bows, and stood eyeing the boom
being said, the High Priest opens the banquet by the immemorial ceremony of
bending over them, as if our knee-pans were warming-pans.  We felt very nice
better than try pot-luck at the Try Pots.  But the directions he had given us
between billows; so at nightfall, the Nantucketer, out of sight of land,
beyond seas for a spile to stop a leak in an oil cask; that pieces of wood in
bigger than hazel nuts, mixed with pounded ship biscuit, and salted pork cut
bill; using, however, my comrade's money.  The grinning landlord, as well as
black, and suspended by asses' ears, swung from the cross-trees of an old
boats and captured cod; and at last, launching a navy of great ships on the
boom to stay it, seemed madness.  It flew from right to left, and back again,
boom was now flying from side to side, completely sweeping the entire after
bowl, thinks I to myself, I wonder now if this here has any effect on the
bowl; --taking it i suppose for a huge finger-glass.  now, said Queequeg,
brows as a slave before the Sultan.  Sideways leaning, we sideways darted;
bumpkin was restored.  All hands voted Queequeg a noble trump; the captain
bumpkin, running towards that officer; Capting, Capting, here's the devil.
bumpkins there, who, by their intense greenness, must have come from the heart
but he now spoke of his native island; and, eager to hear his history, I
but hollow courtesy.  I drew my bench near him, and made some friendly signs
but ill comprehended not a few of his words, yet subsequent disclosures,
by the plunging bowsprit, that for some time we did not notice the jeering
canes in land tornadoes.  So full of this reeling scene were we, as we stood
canoes, after a perilous passage they discovered the island, and there they
carpenters and coopers, with blended noises of fires and forges to melt the
casks were piled upon her wharves, and side by side the world-wandering whale
church to the larboard, and then keeping that on the larboard hand till we
clammy reception in the winter time, ain't it, Mrs Hussey?  But being in a
clearing away the stern boat, Queequeg, stripped to the waist, darted from
cold, for there is no quality in this world that is not what it is merely by
comfortableness of sharing a pipe and a blanket with a real friend.  With our
companionship; always equal to himself.  Surely this was a touch of fine
confabulations, what little nappishness remained in us altogether departed,
conscious of so living or so striving.  So soon as I hear that such or such a
consternation, Queequeg dropped deftly to his knees, and crawling under the
content to toil in the shipyards of foreign cities, Queequeg disdained no
contrast.  Nothing exists in itself.  If you flatter yourself that you are all
cottage, this Captain marches in, and being assigned the post of honor,
could attend to no business that day, at least none but a supper and a bed.
could prevail.  But Queequeg vowed a vow.  Alone in his canoe, he paddled off
country's phrase, that we were bosom friends; he would gladly die for me, if
crouching manner for some time, when all at once I thought I would open my
dauntlessness, and his wild desire to visit Christendom, the captain at last
declared everlasting war with the mightiest animated mass that has survived
dented with the marks of slavish heels and hoofs; and turned me to admire the
desire to see something more of Christendom than a specimen whaler or two.
desires for a supper and a bed, Mrs. Hussey, postponing further scolding for
down among the sailors, and made a whaleman of him.  But like Czar Peter
down in the stern, paddle low in hand; and when the ship was gliding by,
embalmed head; took out his enormous tobacco wallet, and groping under the
ended with his pipe's last dying puff, Queequeg embraced me, pressed his
endlessness, yea, the intolerableness of all earthly effort.  Gaining the
entirely at his ease; preserving the utmost serenity; content with his own
evening shades and phantoms gathering round the casements, and peering in
every ropeyarn tingling like a wire; the two tall masts buckling like Indian
exactly how to take them.  At first they are overawing; their calm
experienced harpooneer, and as such, could not fail to be of great usefulness
eyes; for when between sheets, whether by day or by night, and whether
face into an unearthly expression of disdain, ah!  him bevy small-e fish-e;
feel his own identity aright except his eyes be closed; as if darkness were
fellow beings should be so companionable; as though a white man were anything
fellow man what I would have my fellow man to do to me -- that is the will of
floating forts; even pirates and privateers, though following the sea as
foam-fountain, Queequeg seemed to drink and reel with me.  His dusky nostrils
foot capsized and sank his canoe; climbed up the chains; and throwing
for his own harpoon, because it was of assured stuff, well tried in many a
for it in the entry, and seeming to hear nothing but the word clam, Mrs.
for me to join him; but well knowing what was to follow, I deliberated a
forehead against mine, and blowing out the light, we rolled over from each
found an empty ivory casket, --the poor little Indian's skeleton.  What wonder,
freckled woman with yellow hair and a yellow gown, standing in the porch of
from that wild pipe of his, and keeping it regularly passing between us.  If
from the Humane and Magnanimous Societies.  He only asked for water --fresh
from the water, Queequeg now took an instant's glance around him, and
from their ant-hill in the sea, overrun and conquered the watery world like
furls his sails, and lays him to his rest, while under his very pillow rush
future.  Yes, we became very wakeful; so much so that our recumbent
gentleman, at least for a sea captain --this commander was invited to the
glances of the passengers, a lubber-like assembly, who marvelled that two
good Christian; born and bred in the bosom of the infallible Presbyterian
great expedition: when leaning back a moment and bethinking me of Mrs.
great hurry to resume scolding the man in the purple shirt, who was waiting
green sapling; even then, in Queequeg's ambitious soul, lurked a strong
grow naturally; that they import Canada thistles; that they have to send
had made a harpooneer of him, and that barbed iron was in lieu of a sceptre
hammock, away we went down to the Moss, the little Nantucket packet
have their grace as well as we --though Queequeg told me that unlike us, who
he carried such a troublesome thing with him ashore, and whether all whaling
he felt a strong desire to have a few quiet puffs from his Tomahawk.  Be it
he proposed to sail about, and sow his wild oats in all four oceans.  They
head-board with our four knees drawn up close together, and our two noses
hearts' honeymoon, lay I and Queequeg --a cosy, loving pair.
heeded them not, going along wheeling the barrow by turns, and Queequeg now
herds of walruses and whales.
hides among the waves, he climbs them as chamois hunters climb the Alps.  For
highwaymen the road, they but plunder other ships, other fragments of the
him overboard; suspended a cutlass over his naked wrists; Queequeg was the
him, and the chowder being surpassingly excellent, we despatched it with
him, though now some time from home.  By hints, I asked him whether he did
himself at full length upon the deck, grappled a ringbolt there, and swore not
his brown tattooed legs over mine, and then drawing them back; so entirely
his canoe, still afloat, among these thickets, with its prow seaward, he sat
his chowders.  In short, he plainly hinted that we could not possibly do
his father dead and gone, he being very old and feeble at the last accounts.
his father's heathens.  Arrived at last in old Sag Harbor; and seeing what
his feet, while Queequeg, turning his back upon him, lighted his tomahawk
his majesty the King, Queequeg's father.  Grace being said, -- for those people
his untutored countrymen.  For at bottom --so he told me --he was actuated by a
his, boldly dip into the Potluck of both worlds.  To all this I joyously
his; he owns it, as Emperors own empires; other seamen having but a right
horns; yes, two of them, one for Queequeg, and one for me.  It's ominous,
idol; offered him burnt biscuit with Queequeg; salamed before him twice or
idolator.  So I kindled the shavings; helped prop up the innocent little
illuminated by the flame of the new-lit lamp.  Whether it was that this
in the general consciousness you feel most delightfully and unmistakably warm.
in this famous town.  Soon I proposed a social smoke; and, producing his pouch
in which to carry his heavy chest to his boarding house.  Not to seem ignorant
indeed the proper element of our essences, though light be more congenial to
indifference of his
indifference speaking a nature in which there lurked no civilized hypocrisies
injured eye, and carrying on a brisk scolding with a man in a purple woollen
insignificant bit of black wood?  Impossible!  But what is worship? --to do the
intensity has warmed the air, it then only glows to be looked at; the
is that what you mean, Mrs. Hussey?  says I; but that's a rather cold and
island far away to the West and South.  It is not down in any map; true
island of Rokovoko, it seems, at their wedding feasts express the fragrant
it fast; and then shoulders the barrow and marches up the wharf.  Why, said
it seems, had lent him one,
it.  Here was a man some twenty thousand miles from home, by the way of Cape
killed that chap?  What him say?  said Queequeg, as he mildly turned to me.
knocking up a peaceable inhabitant to inquire the way, we at last came to
land like themselves, without seeking to draw their living from the bottomless
land, covered with mangrove thickets that grew out into the water.  Hiding
lighted his pipe, and leaning against the bulwarks, and mildly eyeing those
like a flash he darted out; gained her side; with one backward dash of his
like another world, more strangely than the moon would to an Earthsman.  With
little Moss came snugly to anchor, and Queequeg and I went ashore; so we
little complimented.  We then turned over the book together, and I endeavored
little like a gallows.  Perhaps I was over sensitive to such impressions at
livelihood!  They first caught crabs and quohogs in the sand; grown bolder,
lonely room; the fire burning low, in that mild stage when, after its first
loud lament the parents saw their child borne out of sight over the wide
love once comes to bend them.  For now I liked nothing better than to have
luggage safe, we stood on board the schooner.  Hoisting sail, it glided down
made a corner three points to the starboard, and that done, then ask the first
made an utter island of by the ocean, that to their very chairs and tables
magnanimity of the sea which will permit no records.  At the same
make out a supper for us both on one clam?  However, a warm savory steam from
man gives himself out for a philosopher, I conclude that, like the dyspeptic
man we met where the place was: these crooked directions of his very much
many inland reapers and mowers, who go into the farmers' meadows armed with
maternal side he boasted aunts who were the wives of unconquerable warriors.
me.  I'll try a pagan friend, thought I, since Christian kindness has proved
millions in China.  He lives on the sea, as prairie cocks in the prairie; he
mimicking him behind his back.  I thought the bumpkin's hour of doom was come.
minutes more, and he rose again, one arm still striking out, and with the
minutes or more he was seen swimming like a dog, throwing his long arms
misgiving.  A sort of crick was in my neck as I gazed up to the two remaining
moment whether, in case he invited me, I would comply or otherwise.  I was a
more dignified than a whitewashed negro.  But there were some boobies and
more my splintered heart and maddened hand were turned against the wolfish
more open water, the bracing breeze waxed fresh; the little Moss tossed the
more to concentrate the snugness of being in bed.  Because no man can ever
moreover he had assured us that cousin Hosea, as he called him, was famous for
mortal combat, and deeply intimate with the hearts of whales.  In short, like
movements.  He answered, to go to sea again, in his old vocation.  Upon this,
much as a single glance; but appeared wholly occupied with counting the
napping at short intervals, and Queequeg now and then affectionately throwing
need should be.  In a countryman, this sudden flame of friendship would have
night's hospitalities, he made out to ask me whether we were again to be
not propose going back, and having a coronation; since he might now consider
noticed these advances; but presently, upon my referring to his last
now.  I asked him what might be his immediate purpose, touching his future
of seamen, spurned his suit; and not all the King his father's influence
of the Try Pots, whom he asserted to
of way through it.  Merchant ships are but extension bridges; armed ones but
of your nose or the crown of your head be slightly chilled, why then, indeed,
often lie and chat over old times till nearly morning.  Thus, then, in our
old woman, he must have broken his digester.  As I sat there in that now
one side, New Bedford rose in terraces of streets, their ice-covered trees
only begins a third, and so on, for ever and for aye.  Such is the
other dragging a lifeless form.  The boat soon picked them up.  The poor
other, this way and that, and very soon were sleeping.
our clayey part.  Upon opening my eyes then, and coming out of my own pleasant
our offing gained, the Moss did homage to the blast; ducked and dived her
over comfortable, and have been so a long time, then you cannot be said to
over his head, and at the next jerk, the spar was that way trapped, and all
pages of the marvellous book.  Considering how sociably we had been sleeping
pair of prodigious black pots too!  Are these last throwing out oblique hints
paper fireboard.  By certain signs and symptoms, I thought he seemed anxious
part of the deck.  The poor fellow whom Queequeg had handled so roughly, was
path of the boom, whipped hold of a rope, secured one end to the bulwarks,
peace with our own consciences and all the world.  But we did not go to sleep
people still happier than they were; and more than that, still better than
perilous and long voyage ended, only begins a second; and a second ended,
philosophy; though no doubt he had never heard there was such a thing as
pictures that were in it.  Thus I soon engaged his interest; and from that we
pipe and passed it to me for a puff.  Capting!  Capting!  yelled the
pitch, all betokening that new cruises were on the start; that one most
placed himself over against the punchbowl, and between the High Priest and
places never are.  When a new-hatched savage running wild about his native
policy of insurance.  I was only alive to the condensed confidential
politeness.  Clam or Cod?  she repeated.  A clam for supper?  a cold clam;
position began to grow wearisome, and by little and little we found ourselves
prairie; that they wear quicksand shoes, something like Laplander snowshoes;
present the whole story such as it may prove in the mere skeleton I give.
profound desire to learn among the Christians, the arts whereby to make his
puzzled us at first, especially as, at the outset, Queequeg insisted that the
quick foam from her bows, as a young colt his snortings.  How I snuffed that
rather Christians, had unfitted him for ascending the pure and undefiled
regularly graded retreating slope from above the brows, which were likewise
relented, and told him he might make himself at home.  But this fine young
return, --as soon as he felt himself baptized again.  For the nonce, however,
revulsion.  Nor did I at all object to the hint from Queequeg that perhaps it
roared the Captain, I'll kill-e you, you cannibal, if you try any more of
round it; peeped in at Behring's Straits; and in all seasons and all oceans
round the waist, and said that henceforth we were married; meaning, in his
sadly vitiated, I fear, by the cannibal propensity he nourished in his
said, that though I had felt such a strong repugnance to his smoking in
said-- Clam or Cod?  What's that about Cods, ma'am?  said I, with much
same mess with me, in short to share my every hap; with both my hands in
savage --this sea Prince of Wales, never saw the captain's cabin.  They put him
savage those old rules would not apply.  After supper, and another social chat
say, because truly to enjoy bodily warmth, some small part of you must be
scanning him, half-pretending meanwhile to be looking out at the storm from
schooner moored at the wharf.  As we were going along the people stared; not
sea, explored this watery world; put an incessant belt of circumnavigations
seamen in the inn.  He made no advances whatever; appeared to have no desire
seasoned with pepper and salt.  Our appetites being sharpened by the frosty
seemed far too premature, a thing to be much distrusted; but in this simple
seeming ignominy, if thereby he might happily gain the power of enlightening
seeming to see just how matters were, dived down and disappeared.  A few
self-collectedness of simplicity seems a Socratic wisdom.  I had noticed also
serene household joy then.  I no more felt unduly concerned for the landlord's
shaggy jackets drawn about our shoulders, we now passed the Tomahawk from one
ship aboard the same vessel, get into the same watch, the same boat, the
ships did not find their own harpoons.  To this, in substance, he replied,
ships lay silent and safely moored at last; while from others came a sound of
shirt.  Get along with ye, said she to the man, or I'll be combing ye!
silenced me by pouring them into my trowsers' pockets.  I let them stay.  He
singular; yet, upon second thoughts, there was something almost sublime in
sitting up; the clothes well tucked around us, leaning against the
small clams will sometimes be found adhering, as to the backs of sea
snapping into splinters.  Nothing was done, and nothing seemed capable of
so many Alexanders; parcelling out among
sociable and free and easy were we; when, at last, by reason of our
something which there was no mistaking.  Two enormous wooden pots painted
son of a King, and Queequeg budged not.  Struck by his desperate
sought a passage to Christian lands.  But the ship, having her full complement
spent their wages in that place also, poor Queequeg gave it up for lost.
sprung up between me and Queequeg -- especially as Peter Coffin's cock and bull
still shivering greenhorn.  Kill-e, cried Queequeg, twisting his tattooed
stories about him had previously so much alarmed me concerning the very person
straight out before him, and by turns revealing his brawny shoulders through
strain upon the main-sail had parted the weather-sheet, and the tremendous
streets, -- but at seeing him and me upon such confidential terms.  But we
swelled apart; he showed his filed and pointed teeth.  On, on we flew, and
swept overboard; all hands were in a panic; and to attempt snatching at the
table, and mechanically dividing them into two equal portions, pushed one of
tapping his stern in mid-somerset, the fellow landed with bursting lungs upon
tell you that they have to plant weeds there, they don't
ten.  Well; when all the wedding guests were assembled at the bride's bamboo
that Queequeg never consorted at all, or but very little, with the other
that it was high time for the Captain to mind his own eye.  The prodigious
that though what I hinted was true enough, yet he had a particular affection
that.  But, perhaps, to be true philosophers, we mortals should not be
the Acushnet river.  On
the New England coast, and carried off an infant Indian in his talons.  With
the Priest, and noting the ceremony, and thinking himself --being Captain of
the barrow from my hand to his, he told me a funny story about the first
the bed the night before, yet see how elastic our stiff prejudices grow when
the boarders, seemed amazingly tickled at the sudden friendship which had
the bowl before the blessed beverage circulates.  Seeing himself placed next
the casement, he never heeded my presence, never troubled himself with so
the ducks, glance upwards to the great Giver of all feasts --Grace, I say,
the embalmed head to a barber, for a block, I settled my own and comrade's
the flood; most monstrous and most mountainous!  That Himmalehan, salt-sea
the freezing foam.  I looked at the grand and glorious fellow, but saw no one
the inn, under a dull red lamp swinging there, that looked much like an
the island; that is, dipping his consecrated and consecrating fingers into
the kitchen served to belie the apparently cheerless prospect before us.  But
the landless gull, that at sunset folds her wings and is rocked to sleep
the mentioning; so, after a fine run, we safely arrived in Nantucket.
the people laugh?  Upon this, he told me another story.  The people of his
the present, ushered us into a little room, and seating us at a table spread
the red-men.  Thus goes the legend.  In olden times an eagle swooped down upon
the sailors did there; and then going on to Nantucket, and seeing how they
the side with a long living arc of a leap.  For three
the time, but I could not help staring at this gallows with a vague
their clothes, and tried to talk their gibberish.  Hence the queer ways about
their own scythes --though in no wise obliged to furnished them -- even so,
them the Atlantic, Pacific, and Indian oceans, as the three pirate powers did
them towards me, and said it was mine.  I was going to remonstrate; but he
then went about his evening prayers, took out his idol, and removed the
then, that these Nantucketers, born on a beach, should take to the sea for a
there open the very bottom of their souls to each other; and some old couples
there plant toadstools before their houses, to get under the shade in summer
there yet lurked any ice of indifference towards me in the Pagan's breast,
they waded out with nets for mackerel; more experienced, they pushed off in
they were.  But, alas!  the practices of whalemen soon convinced him that even
things, including my own poor carpet-bag, and Queequeg's canvas sack and
thinks I. A Coffin my Innkeeper upon landing in my first whaling port;
this pleasant, genial smoke we had, soon thawed it out, and left us cronies.
this punchbowl always forms the great central ornament on the braided mat
this sort of deliciousness is to have nothing but the blanket between you and
this wild idolator in worshipping his piece of wood?  But what is worship?
thought I. Do you suppose now, Ishmael, that the magnanimous God of heaven
thrice; kissed his nose; and that done, we undressed and went to bed, at
throne of thirty pagan Kings before him.  But by and by, he said, he would
till poor Queequeg took his last long dive.  Was there ever such
time; that one blade of grass makes an oasis, three blades in a day's walk a
to a distant strait, which he knew the ship must pass through when she quitted
to be saved.  The greenhorn had gone down.  Shooting himself perpendicularly
to enlarge the circle of his acquaintances.  All this struck me as mighty
to explain to him the purpose of the printing, and the meaning of the few
to feel myself mysteriously drawn towards him.  And those same things that
to let it go, though hacked in pieces.  In vain the captain threatened to throw
to one, who, like me, was wholly ignorant of the mysteries of whaling, though
to sail out of Nantucket, as being the most promising port for an adventurous
to the other, till slowly there grew over us a blue hanging tester of smoke,
tobacco, drew out some thirty dollars in silver; then spreading them on the
together the night previous, and especially considering the affectionate arm
tombstones staring at me in the whalemen's chapel; and here a gallows!  and a
top-mast, planted in front of an old doorway.  The horns of the cross-trees
touching tophet?  I was called from these reflections by the sight of a
turtles.  But these extravaganzas only show that Nantucket is no Illinois.
twenty years as a substitute for blotting paper.  Some gamesome wights will
two thirds of this terraqueous globe are the Nantucketer's.  For the sea is
unconsciousness?  He did not seem to think that he at all deserved a medal
undulating tester rolled the savage away to far distant scenes, I know not,
unilluminated twelve-o'clock-at-night, I experienced a disagreeable
untutored youth.  A Sag Harbor ship visited his father's bay, and Queequeg
up into little flakes; the whole enriched with butter, and plentifully
upon us silent, solitary twain; the storm booming without in solemn swells;
very panics are more to be dreaded than his most fearless and malicious
very projecting, like two long promontories thickly wooded on top.  Queequeg
very strange.  But savages are strange beings; at times you do not know
voyage, and in particular, Queequeg seeing his favorite fishing food before
warm spark in the heart of an arctic crystal.  We had been sitting in this
was George Washington cannibalistically developed.  Whilst I was thus closely
was safe.  The schooner was run into the wind, and while the hands were
water -- something to wipe the brine off; that done, he put on dry clothes,
water of young cocoanuts into a large stained calabash like a punchbowl; and
waters.  They resolved to follow in the same direction.  Setting out in their
way in which to manage the barrow --Queequeg puts his chest upon it; lashes
wedding feast of Queequeg's sister, a pretty young princess just turned of
well acquainted with the sea, as known to merchant seamen.  His story being
went to jabbering the best we could about the various outer sights to be seen
were best to strike a light, seeing that we were so wide awake; and besides
were sawed off on the other side, so that this old top-mast looked not a
whaleman to embark from.  He at once resolved to accompany me to that island,
wheelbarrow he had ever seen.  It was in Sag Harbor.  The owners of his ship,
when I had become more familiar with his broken phraseology, now enable me to
when our smoke was over, he pressed his forehead against mine, clasped me
when that smoking chowder came in, the mystery was delightfully explained.
where the feast is held.  Now a certain grand merchant ship once touched at
which is one of the luxurious discomforts of the rich.  For the height of
whom I now companied with.  We borrowed a wheelbarrow, and embarking our
will not venture to decide; but certain it was his head was phrenologically
will of God -- that is worship.  And what is the will of God? --to do to my
with a different flavor, and in good time a fine cod-chowder was placed
with the relics of a recently concluded repast, turned round to us and
without some little chat.  How it is I know not; but there is no place like a
woodlands in a grass clout, followed by the nibbling goats, as if he were a
world it occupies; how it stands there, away off shore, more lonely than the
world, in all meridians.  We cannibals must help these Christians.
world.  This soothing savage had redeemed it.  There he sat, his very
worship.  consequently, i must then unite with him in his; ergo, I must turn
would do to me?  Why, unite with me in my particular Presbyterian form of
would have repelled most others, they were the very magnets that thus drew
years he knows not the land; so that when he comes to it at last, it smells
yellow warehouse --our first point of departure --must be left on the larboard
your snugness and the cold of the outer air.  Then there you lie like the one
your tricks aboard here; so mind your eye.  But it so happened just then,
