
























     All at once the out-stretched arm gave a peculiar motion and then remained
     Good a mast-head as any, sir.  Will you mount?  That I will, and thank ye
     It was a cloudy, sultry afternoon;
     Queequeg, said I, come along, you shall be my lawyer, executor, and
     Sing out and say something, my hearties.  Roar and pull, my thunderbolts!
     Smuggled on board, somehow, before the ship sailed. (Strong, strong, boys! )
     That's it --that's it.  Now ye do something; that looks like it, my
     The phantoms, for so they then
     There are certain queer times and occasions
     Time!  time!  Dough-Boy hurried below, glanced at the watch, and reported
     Where-away?  On the lee-beam, about two miles off!  a school of them!
     Who would have thought
     Yes, that's the law.  I should like to see a boat's crew backing water up to a
     and considering that Starbuck, notwithstanding, was famous for his great
     and partially beneath a thin layer of water, also, the whales were swimming.
     be in a hurry.  Why don't you snap your oars, you rascals?  Bite something,
     far off upon the sea; and finally fell to rearing and plunging in the boat's
     for a vast practical joke, though the wit thereof he but dimly discerns,
     give way, all four boats.  Thou, Flask, pull out more to leeward!  Aye,
     he had rather a peculiar way of talking to them in general, and especially
     in a whisper to his crew, then speaking out loud again: A sad business,
     some of the ship's company; but Archy's fancied discovery having some time
     the water covering every rib and plank, so that to our downward gazing eyes
     were the Loom of Time, and I myself were a shuttle mechanically weaving and
     whose eyes had been setting to windward like two fixed stars, suddenly
(Pull, my boys!) Sperm, sperm's the play!  This at least is duty; duty and
-- He's got fits, that
--aye, chance, free will, and necessity --no wise incompatible --all
--merry's the word.  Pull, babes --pull, sucklings -- pull, all.  But what the
.. < chapter L 27  AHAB'S BOAT AND CREW.  FEDALLAH >
.. < chapter xlix 15  THE HYENA >
.. < chapter xlvii 14  THE MAT-MAKER >
.. < chapter xlviii 2  THE FIRST LOWERING >
.. <p 212 >
.. <p 213 >
.. <p 214 >
.. <p 215 >
.. <p 216 >
.. <p 217 >
.. <p 218 >
.. <p 219 >
.. <p 220 >
.. <p 221 >
.. <p 222 >
.. <p 223 >
.. <p 224 >
.. <p 225 >
.. <p 225 >
.. <p 226 >
.. <p 227 >
.. <p 227 >
.. <p 228 >
Ahab said to that tiger-yellow crew of his --these were words best omitted
Among whale-wise people it has often been argued whether, considering the
Archy.  Oh, I don't mind 'em, sir, said Archy; I knew it all before now.
Beach me, beach me on their black backs, boys; only do that for me, and I'll
Besides he all the time looked so easy and indolent himself, so loungingly
Besides, all the days I should now live would be as good as the days that
But it bade far to outstrip them; it flew on and on, as a mass of
But with Ahab the question assumed a modified aspect.  Considering that with
Chinese jacket of black cotton funereally invested him, with wide black
Didn't I hear 'em in the hold?  And didn't I tell Cabaco here of it?  What say
Flask has.  Fits?  yes, give him fits --that's the very word -- pitch fits
Flask mounted upon gigantic Daggoo was yet more curious; for sustaining
Flask.  If his leg were off at the hip, now, it would be a different thing.
He would say the most terrific things to his crew, in a tone so strangely
However, nothing dispirits, and nothing seems worth while disputing.  He bolts
I think I have heard you say that of all whalemen you ever met, our chief
I, when they had dragged me, the last man, to the deck, and I was still
Instantly all was commotion.  The Sperm Whale blows as a clock ticks, with the
Lazarus lived after his resurrection; a supplementary clean gain of so many
Mr. Stubb! (seethe her, seethe her, my lads!) but never mind, Mr. Stubb,
Passion and Vanity stamping the living magnanimous earth, but the earth did
Pequod bearing down upon her boats with outstretched sails, like a wild hen
Queequeg, while busy at the mat.  As I kept passing and repassing the
Seen in advance of all the other indications, the puffs of vapor they spouted,
So Tamerlane's soldiers often argued with tears in their eyes, whether that
Soon after, two cries in quick succession on each side of us denoted that the
Swimming round it we picked up the floating oars, and lashing them across the
That would disable him; but he has one knee, and good part of the other left,
The air around suddenly vibrated and tingled, as it were, like the air over
There's hogsheads of sperm ahead, Mr. Stubb, and that's what ye came for.
Three cheers, men --all hearts alive!  Easy, easy; don't be in a hurry --don't
Upon this, Daggoo, with either hand upon the gunwale to steady his way,
Whale when, sounding with his head in one direction, he nevertheless, while
With a start all glared at dark Ahab, who was surrounded by five dusky
a fourth keel, coming from the windward side, pulled round under the stern,
a huge, vague form.  Affrighted, we all sprang into the sea as the ship at
a ledge; the sail collapsed and exploded; a
a skewer through their necks; usage pronouncing that they must have no organs
a whaling captain to jeopardize that life in the active perils of the chase.
about to throw themselves on board an enemy's ship.  But at this critical
account, said
accounting for their appearance, they were for the time freed from
acted like a charm upon the crew.  Then again, Stubb was one of those odd sort
advance of our bows.  For that singular craft at times evinced by the Sperm
after her screaming brood; --all this was thrilling.  Not the raw recruit,
ain't the White Whale to-day!  Give way!  Now the advent of these outlandish
air; but from few of those lungs could that accustomed old cry have derived
all attempts to bale out the boat.  The oars were useless as propellers,
all but her trucks.  But little King-Post was small and short, and at the
all for the best.  Let all your crew pull strong, come what will. (Spring, my
all inferiors on their guard in the matter of obeying them.  In obedience to a
allusions of his were at times so vivid and life-like, that they would cause
along; the boat going with such madness through the water, that the lee oars
and cross-running seas.  Still more strange to see him giddily perched upon
and fashions both warp and woof; this easy, indifferent sword must be chance
and more than suspects that the joke is at nobody's expense but his own.
and round upon his head.  Less swart in aspect, the companions of this figure
and showed the five strangers rowing Ahab, who, standing erect in the stern,
and strong.  Give way there, give way!  The devil fetch ye, ye ragamuffin
and subdued and yet somehow preluding was all the scene, and such an
and that's what he went into the after hold for, so often, as Dough-Boy long
and worryings, prospects of sudden disaster, peril of life and limb; all
arm, like a fencer's, thrown half backward into the air, as if to
as that, Flask seemed perched at the mast-head of some ship which had sunk to
as the standard-bearer of this forlorn hope.  There, then, he sat, holding up
at a sound so strange, long drawn, and musically wild and unearthly, that the
at the other end of the boat Ahab, with one
aye, sir, cheerily cried little King-Post, sweeping round his great steering
back-foremost into death's jaws?  Can't you twist that smaller?  said Flask.
ball of free will dropped from my hand, and I stood gazing up at the clouds
been visible at that moment; nothing but a troubled bit of greenish white
before the squall comes.  There's white water again! --close to!  Spring!
betrayed no such far-gazing solicitudes.  The whales might have made one of
blowing off to leeward, like the confused scud from white rolling billows.
blows!  there!  there!  there!  she blows!  she blows!
blue, thus giving no distantly discernible token of the movement, though
board.  Ere the squall came close to, the other boats had cut loose from
boat, as it would tip for an instant on the knife-like edge of the sharper
boat, unless maybe to stop the plug-hole with my timber toe.  Oh!  he's a
boat; it was the darted iron of Queequeg.  Then all in one welded commotion
boats below.  Hardly had they pulled out from under the ship's lee, when
boats were now in keen pursuit of that one spot of troubled water and air.
broken by the intermitting dull sound of the sword, that it seemed as if this
but ears, and no limbs but arms, in these critical moments.  It was a sight
but was still cruising, if haply it might light upon some token of our
came an invisible push from astern, while forward the boat seemed striking on
can't see three seas off; tip us up an oar there, and let me on to that.
capsizings in the water and consequent bivouacks on the deep, were matters
celerity, were casting loose the tackles and bands of the boat which swung
children, boys.  Lay me on --lay me on!  O Lord, Lord!  but I shall go stark,
clearly cut against the alternating depressions of the watery horizon; while
come to help us --never mind from where --the more the merrier.  Pull, then, do
command, now soft with entreaty.  How different the loud little King-Post.
company were gazing upon these strangers, Ahab cried out to the
completed fabric; this savage's sword, thought I, which thus finally shapes
compounded of fun and fury, and the fury seemed so calculated merely as a
concealed beneath the surface, mills round, and swiftly swims off in the
concentrated whisper to his men; while the sharp fixed glance from his eyes
concluding blow producing a corresponding contrast in the final aspect of the
coolly and adroitly balancing himself to the jerking tossings of his chip of a
could scarcely be worked rapidly enough to escape being torn from the
counterbalance any tendency to trip: Ahab was seen steadily managing his
counting-room they suppose to be elsewhere.  While yet the wondering ship's
craft, and silently eyeing the vast blue eye of the sea.  Not very far
creeping on board the Pequod during the dim Nantucket dawn, as well as the
crew sat motionless on the sea.  Instantly the three spread boats in the rear
cries.  To be sure the same sound was that very moment perhaps being heard all
crying out in a quick phrensy of hurry, Down, down all, and give way! --there
darted straight ahead of the bow, almost seemed as two visible needles in two
dashed against it by the seas, and were at last taken up and safely landed on
deck, this had not unreasonably awakened a sort of superstitious amazement in
deck.  Lower away there, I say.  Such was the thunder of his voice, that
declared to be incessantly tantalizing his boat's bow with its tail --these
descried.  Likewise upon the extreme stern of the boat where it was also
despairing of ship or boat, we lifted up our eyes as the dawn came on.  The
destiny into these unalterable threads.  Meantime, Queequeg's impulsive,
devil are you hurrying about?  Softly, softly, and steadily, my men.  Only
devil fetch the hindmost.
did his crew say anything to him.  Only the silence of the boat was at
digestion gobbles down bullets and gun flints.  And as for small difficulties
dip into the watery glens and hollows; the keen spurrings and goadings to
displayed his naked chest with the whole part of his body above the gunwale,
distant Flask's boat was also lying breathlessly still; its commander
down all events, all creeds, and beliefs, and persuasions, all hard things
down heading to leeward, we confidently looked to see them again directly in
dreaminess did there then reign all over the ship and all over the sea, only
dropped like light from his erect attitude to his seat,
dry on his shoulders.  And here was Flask now standing, Daggoo with one
ear.  We all heard a faint creaking, as of ropes and yards hitherto muffled by
earthquake beneath us.  The whole crew were half suffocated as they were
enigmatical hintings of the unaccountable Elijah.  Meantime, Ahab, out of
expectantly poised on the gunwale.  So look the long line of man-of-war's men
eyes out!  Here!  whipping out the sharp knife from his girdle; every
facing the life and death peril so close to them ahead, yet with their eyes
family vault.  now then, thought i, unconsciously rolling up the sleeves of
featuring blow at events.  Thus we were weaving and weaving away when I started
filling or woof of marline between the long yarns of the warp, using my own
finds himself pulling into the charmed, churned circle of the hunted sperm
fixed, while the boat's five oars were seen simultaneously peaked.  Boat and
fond of that diversion.  This was the fourth time in my nautical life that I
for a pedestal.
for one instant it tossed and gaped beneath the ship's bows like a chip at
for shipkeepers -- that is, those not appointed to the boats, by this time
friend, does this sort of thing often happen?  Without much emotion, though
from Tashtego; and the whales disappeared.  Quick, steward!  cried Ahab.
from his closer vicinity Ahab had observed it.  Every man look out along his
from his head, and stamped up and down on it; then picking it up, flirted it
full of quick wonder and awe!  The vast swells of the omnipotent sea; the
gain the top of the opposite hill; the headlong, sled-like slide down its
gigantic bowls in a boundless bowling-green; the brief suspended agony of the
ginger-cakes don't ye pull? --pull and break something!  pull, and start your
give it to him!  whispered Starbuck.  A short rushing sound leaped out of the
glistening white plaited turban, the living hair braided and coiled round
gunwale, tumbled back to our places.  There we sat up to our knees in the sea,
gush of scalding vapor shot up near by; something rolled and tumbled like an
had done the same thing.  After the ceremony was concluded upon the present
hailed the mate.  Mr. Starbuck!  larboard boat there, ahoy!  a word with ye,
hand for the shuttle, and as Queequeg, standing sideways, ever and anon slid
harpoon in hand, sprang to his feet.  Though not one of the oarsmen was then
hatband, where he always wore it aslant like a feather.  He loaded it, and
he sat, the sign and symbol of a man without faith, hopelessly holding up hope
hearing of his officers, having sided the furthest to windward, was still
hearts-alive; pull, my children; pull, my little ones, drawingly and
heave did he thereby give to the negro's lordly chest.  So have I seen
heedfulness in the fishery; considering that I belonged to this uncommonly
height of a whaleman's discretion?  Certain.  I've lowered for whales from a
here, thought I, with my own hand I ply my own shuttle and weave my own
here; for you live under the blessed light of the evangelical land.  Only the
himself by.  At any time it is a strange sight to the tyro to see with what
himself should toss, with one dexterous fling landed the little man high and
himself with a cool, indifferent, easy, unthought of, barbaric majesty, the
his broad back, flaxen-haired flask seemed a snow-flake.  The bearer looked
his congregation.  Not at all; and therein consisted his chief peculiarity.
his heavy oaken sword between the threads, and idly looking off upon the
his prey.  Meanwhile, all the boats tore on.  The repeated specific allusions
horizon, you would have thought him some prophet or seer beholding the
horizontal burst boiler out of a Mississippi steamer.  As for Fedallah, who was
implicated, touching the White Whale: taking all things together, I say, I
imputed to Starbuck's driving on to his whale almost in the teeth of a squall,
in his oil-jacket, was now calmly smoking his pipe in the rain; Mr. Stubb,
in inculcating the religion of rowing.  But you must not suppose from this
in the midst of despair.  Wet, drenched through, and shivering cold,
in these jaws of death!  In vain we hailed the other boats; as well roar to
in this strange mixed affair we call life when a man takes this whole universe
incantation of revery lurked in the air, that each silent sailor seemed
inch as he spoke; still earnestly but whisperingly urging his crew; his face
indifferent sword, sometimes hitting the woof slantingly, or crookedly, or
infidel sharks in the audacious seas may give ear to such words, when, with
instant a sudden exclamation was heard that took every eye from the whale.
intensely eager eyes gazed off towards the spot where the chase had last been
intensely heated plates of iron.  Beneath this atmospheric waving and curling,
interblending bubbles borne down a rapid stream from the hills.  Pull, pull,
interblending of other threads with its own.  This warp seemed necessity; and
intervals startlingly pierced by one of his peculiar whispers, now harsh with
interweavingly working together.  The straight warp of necessity, not to be
into 'em.  Merrily, merrily, hearts-alive.  Pudding for supper, you know;
into the hands of him who steered the boat --oftentimes a fellow who at that
into the lead-colored waters.  Queequeg and I were mildly employed weaving
invaluable life of his ought to be carried into the thickest of the fight.
it, Flask!  cried Stubb; if I had but one leg you would not catch me in a
it.  Well, well, so be it!  Can't be helped!  All right!  Give way, men!  It
joke.  There is nothing like the perils of whaling to breed this free and easy
lamp in the lantern; then stretching it on a waif pole, handed it to Queequeg
last loomed into view, bearing right down upon us within a distance of not
leaking ship in a gale off Cape Horn.  Mr. Flask, said I, turning to
leeward.  Our sail was now set, and, with the still rising wind, we rushed
legatee.  It may seem strange that of all men sailors should be tinkering at
lifted arm furnishing him with a breast-band to lean against and steady
lightning-like hurtling whisper Starbuck said: Stand up!  and Queequeg,
like a quiet ghost with a clean conscience sitting inside the bars of a snug
little Flask would now and then stamp with impatience; but not one added
little King-Post, who was standing close by; you are experienced in these
loudly hailed Starbuck, Stubb, and Flask, to spread themselves widely, so as
mad Gay-Header, Tashtego.  His body was reaching eagerly forward, his hand
managed his steering-oar, and so broadly gaped --open-mouthed at times --that
manner of wild conjectures as to dark Ahab's precise agency in the matter from
marching from the bosom of his wife into the fever heat of his first battle;
marling-spikes!  Stubb's exordium to his crew is given here at large, because
match across the rough sand-paper of his hand, when Tashtego, his harpooneer,
mate, Mr. Starbuck, is by far the most careful and prudent.  I suppose then,
mechanically retained between his teeth, at a short distance, followed after
men, spring!)
mind that!  here then, from three impartial witnesses, i had a deliberate
mist still spread over the sea, the empty lantern lay crushed in the bottom
mizzen had come down; the line tubs were fixed in their places; the cranes
months or weeks as the case might be.  I survived myself; my death and burial
more spacious than the palm of a man's hand, and standing upon such a base
more visible, owing to the increasing darkness of the dun cloud-shadows flung
mother's son of ye draw his knife, and pull with the blade between his teeth.
much more than its length.  Floating on the waves we saw the abandoned boat, as
my frock, here goes a cool, collected dive at death and destruction, and the
my good boys, said Starbuck, in the lowest possible but intensest
natives of the Manillas; --a race notorious for a certain diabolism of
necessity, and sideways in its motions directed by free will, though thus
negro, stooping a little, presented his flat palm to Flask's foot, and then
neither ship nor boat to be seen.  Give way, men, whispered Starbuck, drawing
noble negro to every roll of the sea harmoniously rolled his fine form.  On
nobler than the rider.  Though truly vivacious, tumultuous, ostentatious
not alter her tides and her seasons for that.  Meanwhile Stubb, the third mate,
not the dead man's ghost encountering
oar.  Lay back!  addressing his crew.  There! --there! --there again!  There
oars!  cried Starbuck.  Thou, Queequeg, stand up!  Nimbly springing up on
occasion, I felt all the easier; a stone was rolled away from my heart.
ocean.  The wind increased to a howl; the waves dashed their bucklers
odd sort of wayward mood I am speaking of, comes over a man only in some time
of Flask to that whale, as he called the fictitious monster which he
of common occurrence in this kind of life; considering that at the
of extreme tribulation; it comes in the very midst of his earnestness, so
of humorists, whose jollity is sometimes so curiously ambiguous, as to put
of the boat.  Suddenly Queequeg started to his feet, hollowing his hand to his
of their wonder; and so what with all this and Stubb's confident way of
often happen.  Mr. Stubb, said I, turning to that worthy, who, buttoned up
on the intense countenance of the mate in the stern of the boat, they knew
only tending to that; free will still free to ply her shuttle between given
opposite quarter --this deceitfulness of his could not now be in action; for
other boats had got fast; but hardly were they overheard, when with a
other side; --all these, with the cries of the headsmen and harpooneers, and
our own particular boat was chiefly to be
over the seas, from hundreds of whalemen's look-outs perched as high in the
over you half suspended in air, so wildly and eagerly peering towards the
paramount importance of his life to the success of the voyage, it is right for
parted by
paused on their way.  The whales had irregularly settled bodily down into the
performing now the office of life-preservers.  So, cutting the lashing of the
perishing, --an oar or a lance pole.
phantoms that seemed fresh formed out of air.
philosophically drawled Stubb, who, with his unlighted short pipe,
planting his feet firmly against two opposite planks of the boat, the gigantic
platform.  it is used for catching turns with the whale line.  Its top is not
posture in his boat, even when pitched about by the most riotously perverse
prescribed to by both, chance by turns rules either, and has the last
previous got abroad among them, though indeed not credited then, this had in
profession.  be all this as it may, his voice was now often heard hailing the
profit hand in hand!  Aye, aye, I thought as much, soliloquized Stubb,
prudent Starbuck's boat; and finally considering in what a devil's chase I was
pull, and keep pulling; nothing more.  Crack all your backbones, and bite
pull; never mind the brimstone --devils are good fellows enough.  So, so;
pulled more apart; Starbuck giving chase to three whales running dead to
pulling for dear life, and yet pulling for the mere joke of the thing.
punches in the side bestowed by the unseen and unaccountable old joker.  That
putting Flask's hand on his hearse-plumed head and bidding him spring as he
rammed home the loading with his thumb-end; but hardly had he ignited his
ranging ahead of the other boats; a circumstance bespeaking how potent a crew
rapscallions; ye are all asleep.  Stop snoring, ye sleepers, and pull.  Pull,
recklessly standing upon the top of the loggerhead, a stout sort of post
relieved the Indian at the main-mast head.  The sailors at the fore and
reporting even a porpoise.  This vigilance was not long without reward.
resolved into his own invisible self.  I was the attendant or page of
right and left; the whales seemed separating their wakes.  The boats were
rooted in the keel, and rising some two feet above the level of the stern
round in the blocks; with a wallow, the three boats dropped into the sea;
row-locks.  Soon we were running through a suffusing wide veil of mist;
same time little King-Post was full of a large and tall ambition, so that
same undeviating and reliable uniformity.  And thereby whalemen distinguish
say, and burst all your livers and lungs!  But what it was that inscrutable
sea like three samphire baskets over high cliffs.  Outside of the bulwarks
secret confidential agents on the water of the devil, their lord, whose
seemed their forerunning couriers and detached flying outriders.  All four
seemed, were flitting on the other side of the deck, and, with a noiseless
seems but a part of the general
seen no more till it came up weltering astern.  Again we swam for it, were
seen pulling the harpooneer oar, he had thrown aside his black jacket, and
set like a flint from Stubb's.  What think ye of those yellow boys, sir!
shadows of Fate, and by those wild cries announcing their coming.  There she
shadows of night; no sign of the ship could be seen.  The rising sea forbade
shaking myself in my jacket to fling off the water; Queequeg, my fine
she blows right ahead, boys! -- lay back!  Never heed yonder yellow boys,
sign from Ahab, Starbuck was now pulling obliquely across Stubb's bow; and
sign over to you my Martha's Vineyard plantation, boys; including wife and
sir, if ye please!  Halloa!  returned Starbuck, turning round not a single
soaked through just like me, he gave me to understand that such things did
solace the languishing interval with his pipe.  He withdrew it from his
some one or two of his men to snatch a fearful look over the shoulder.  But
some small measure prepared them for the event.  It took off the extreme edge
soothingly sighed Stubb to his crew, some of whom still showed signs of
sort of genial, desperado philosophy; and with it I now regarded this whole
sound as of fifty elephants stirring in their litter.  Meanwhile the boat was
specimen of his sermonizings that he ever flew into downright passions with
spice to the fun, that no oarsman could hear such queer invocations without
spite of their amazement the men sprang over the rail; the sheaves whirled
starboard quarter.  The figure that now stood by its bows was tall and swart,
stare at?  Those chaps in yonder boat?  Tut!  They are only five more hands
staring mad: See!  see that white water!  And so shouting, he pulled his hat
statement of the entire case.  Considering, therefore, that squalls and
steel-bits.  Start her --start her, my silver-spoons!  Start her,
steering oar as in a thousand boat lowerings ere the White Whale had torn him.
stern like a crazed colt from the prairie.  Look at that chap now,
still booming through the mist, the waves curling and hissing around us like
still further aft the sheet of his sail; there is time to kill a fish yet
stranger and stronger emotions than that man does, who for the first time
strangers at such a critical instant as the lowering of the boats from the
strength, which periodically started the boat along the water like a
stretched out like a wand, and at brief sudden intervals he continued his
stroke to sweep the stakes!  Hurrah for the gold cup of sperm oil, my heroes!
strongly, or weakly, as the case might be; and by this difference in the
subtilty, and by some honest white mariners supposed to be the paid spies and
such a marvellous cadence as from Tashtego the Indian's.  As he stood hovering
superlatively critical instant of going on to the whale I must resign my life
superstitious surmisings; though the affair still left abundant room for all
surging, hollow roar they made, as they rolled along the eight gunwales, like
suspected.  They were hidden down there.  The White Whale's at the bottom of
swerved from its ultimate course --its every alternating vibration, indeed,
swiftly slid aft, and then erecting himself volunteered his lofty shoulders
technically called the captain's, on account of its hanging from the
that going plump on a flying whale with your sail set in a foggy squall is the
that imbecile candle in the heart of that almighty forlornness.  There, then,
that storm.  Meanwhile the driving scud, rack, and mist, grew darker with the
that the imminent instant had come; they heard, too, an enormous wallowing
that what just before might have seemed to him a thing most momentous, now
the base of a cataract; and then the vast hull rolled over it, and it was
the beginning.  For me, I silently recalled the mysterious shadows I had seen
the command.  Captain Ahab?-- said Starbuck.  Spread yourselves, cried Ahab;
the erected crests of enraged serpents.  That's his hump.  There, there,
the exact minute to Ahab.  The ship was now kept away from the wind, and she
the first unknown phantom in the other world; --neither of these can feel
the iron, escaped.  Though completely swamped, the boat was nearly unharmed.
the live coals down the chimney of a flaming furnace as hail those boats in
the loggerhead itself, under such circumstances.  But the sight of little
the mere sight of such a yawning commander, by sheer force of contrast,
the pursuit of whales is always under great and extraordinary difficulties;
the sailors, goat-like, leaped down the rolling ship's side into the tossed
the seamen were lazily lounging about the decks, or vacantly gazing over
the shuddering gasps of the oarsmen, with the wondrous sight of the ivory
the storm.  The sound came nearer and nearer; the thick mists were dimly
the suspended craft seemed a coral boat grown up to us from the bottom of the
the swart Fedallah and his crew, the inmates of the other boats obeyed not
the triangular raised box in the bow, the savage stood erect there, and with
their eager crews with one hand clung to the rail, while one foot was
their fish and returned to the ship in good time.  The ship had given us up,
their last wills and testaments, but there are no people in the world more
their regular soundings, not a temporary dive from mere fright; and if that
there was no reason to suppose that the fish seen by Tashtego had been in any
there you are now; that's the stroke for a thousand pounds; that's the
there.  This boat had always been deemed one of the spare boats, though
these, and death itself, seem to him only sly, good-natured hits, and jolly
they are!  To a landsman, no whale, nor any sign of a herring, would have
things, and I am not.  Will you tell me whether it is an unalterable law in
this fish from other tribes of his genus.  There go flukes!  was now the cry
this fishery, Mr. Flask, for an oarsman to break his own back pulling himself
this loggerhead stand-point of his did by no means satisfy King-Post.  I
this was against all rule; for the oarsmen must put out their eyes, and ram
thought I might as well go below and make a rough draft of my will.
threads of the warp subject to but one single, ever returning, unchanging
threads; and chance, though restrained in its play within the right lines of
three mast-heads and admonishing them to keep a bright look-out, and not omit
to cover a large expanse of water.  but with all their eyes again riveted upon
to evince all his well known passionate interest in the general pursuit of his
together; the whole squall roared, forked, and crackled around us like a
tornado brow, and eyes of red murder, and foam-glued lips, Ahab leaped after
tossed helter-skelter into the white curdling cream of the squall.  Squall,
triangularly platformed level with the gunwale, Starbuck himself was seen
trowsers of the same dark stuff.  But strangely crowning his ebonness was a
two legs man is but a hobbling wight in all times of danger; considering that
uneasiness.  Why don't you break your backbones, my boys?  What is it you
unerring binnacle compasses.  He did not say much to his crew, though, nor
upon the sea.  The jets of vapor no longer blended, but tilted everywhere to
very moment is in his impetuousness upon the point of scuttling the craft
very much, my fine fellow; only I wish you fifty feet taller.  Whereupon
vibration, and that vibration merely enough to admit of the crosswise
visible and invisible, never mind how knobby; as an ostrich of potent
voyage of the Pequod, and the great White Whale its object.  Queequeg, said
voyage; observe all customary usages; and not only that, but force himself
was pulling him.  those tiger yellow creatures of his seemed all steel and
was the half-hissed reply.  Lower away then; d'ye hear?  shouting across the
water, and thin scattered puffs of vapor hovering over it, and suffusingly
water, carelessly and unthinkingly drove home every yarn: I say so strange a
water-proof match keg, after many failures Starbuck contrived to ignite the
waves, that almost seemed threatening to cut it in two; the sudden profound
way alarmed, or indeed knew at all of our vicinity.  One of the men selected
weaving away at the Fates.  There lay the fixed
went gently rolling before it.  Tashtego reporting that the whales had gone
were locked up in my chest.  I looked round me tranquilly and contentedly,
were of that vivid, tiger-yellow complexion peculiar to some of the aboriginal
were the case, Stubb, as his wont in such cases, it seems, was resolved to
were thrust out; the mainyard was backed, and the three boats swung over the
whale face foremost.  Ha, ha!  the whale would give them squint for squint,
whale, and harpoon had all blended together; and the whale, merely grazed by
whale-bone; like five trip-hammers they rose and fell with regular strokes of
whale.  The dancing white water made by the chase was now becoming more and
what is called a sword-mat, for an additional lashing to our boat.  So still
when for a minute or so the two boats were pretty near to each other, Stubb
when the boats diverged, as soon as I clapt eye on 'em, I thought so.  Aye,
whence that voice dropped like a wing.  High aloft in the cross-trees was that
while, with a dexterous, off-handed daring, unknown in any other vocation,
white fire upon the prairie, in which, unconsumed, we were burning; immortal
white-turbaned old man at their head, All ready there, Fedallah?  Ready,
will ye?  pull, can't ye?  pull, won't ye?  Why in the name of gudgeons and
with his own frantic stampings; considering that the particular disaster to
with one white tooth evilly protruding from its steel-like lips.  A rumpled
wonderful old man!  I don't think it so strange, after all, on that
wondrous habitude of unconscious skill the whaleman will maintain an erect
ye, Cabaco?  They are stowaways, Mr. Flask.  Pull, pull, my fine
you dogs!  So, so, so, then; --softly, softly!  That's it -- that's it!  long
you know.  I don't know that, my little man; I never yet saw him kneel.
your knives in two -- that's all.  Take it easy --why don't ye take it easy, I
