










     But come, it's getting dreadful late, you had better be turning flukes --it's
     Do you pretend to say, landlord, that this harpooneer is actually engaged
     Don't be afraid now, said he, grinning again.  Queequeg here wouldn't harm
     Grub, ho!  now cried the landlord, flinging open a door, and in we went to
     I quickly followed suit, and descending into
     I succeeded in extracting a grunt; and presently, he drew back his arm,
     If I had been astonished at first catching a
     Landlord, said I, going up to him as cool as Mt.  Hecla in a snow storm,
     Queequeg! --but his only answer was a snore.  I then rolled over, my neck
     Upon waking next morning about daylight,
     With heads to be sure; ain't there too many heads in the world?  I tell
-- he hunted up his boots.  What under the heavens he did it for, I cannot
-- landlord, stop whittling.  You and I must understand one another, and
--under the bed; when, from sundry violent
--yes, he's the bird what catches the worm. --But to-night he went out a
.. < chapter iv 2  THE COUNTERPANE >
.. < chapter v 5  BREAKFAST >
.. < chapter vi 11  THE STREET >
.. <p 17 >
.. <p 18 >
.. <p 19 >
.. <p 20 >
.. <p 21 >
.. <p 22 >
.. <p 23 >
.. <p 24 >
.. <p 25 >
.. <p 26 >
.. <p 27 >
.. <p 28 >
.. <p 29 >
.. <p 29 >
.. <p 30 >
.. <p 31 >
.. <p 31 >
.. <p 32 >
Africa, which was the sum of poor Mungo's performances -- this kind of travel,
After
At last, he emerged with his hat very much dented and crushed down over his
Brighggians, and, besides the wild specimens of the whaling-craft which
Broadway and Chestnut streets, Mediterranean mariners will sometimes jostle
But that was certainly very coolly done by him, and every
But though the other boarders kept coming in by ones, twos, and threes, and
Christian would have washed his face; but Queequeg, to my amazement,
He now took off his hat --a new beaver hat --when I came nigh singing out with
I bolted a dinner.  Even as it was, I thought something of slipping out of the
I cannot say much for his breeding.  His greatest admirer could not have
I concluded that it must be nothing but a wooden idol, which indeed it
I found Queequeg's arm thrown over me in the most loving and affectionate
I kill-e!  again growled the cannibal, while his horrid flourishings of the
I say, may not be the very best mode of attaining a high social polish.
I well remember a somewhat similar circumstance that befell me; whether it
Ignorance is the parent of fear, and being completely nonplussed and
Johnny in the foot of it.  But I got a dreaming and sprawling about one night,
Ledyard, the great New England traveller, and Mungo Park, the Scotch one; of
Look there!  that chap strutting round the corner.  He wears a beaver hat and
Meanwhile, I lay quietly eyeing him, having no serious misgivings now, and
Meanwhile, he continued the business of undressing, and at last showed his
My sensations were strange.  Let me try to explain them.  When I was a child,
Nevertheless, a man like Queequeg you don't see every day, he and his ways
New Zealand head --a ghastly thing enough --and crammed it down into the bag.
Placing these on the old chest in the middle of the room, he then took the
Queequeg made, staving about with little else but his hat and boots on; I
Queequeg?  which, barred with various tints, seemed like the Andes' western
Remembering the embalmed head, at first I almost thought that this black
Saturday night clean into the holy Sabbath, engaged in such a cannibal
Still, for the most part, that sort of thing is to be had anywhere.  These
There weekly arrive in this town scores of green Vermonters and New Hampshire
There's plenty room for two to kick about in that bed; it's an almighty big
This being told to Queequeg, he at once complied, and again politely motioned
Throwing aside the counterpane, there lay the tomahawk sleeping by the
Watch!  Coffin!  Angels!  save me!  Speak-e!  tell-ee me who-ee be, or dam-me,
Zealand heads (great curios, you know), and he's sold all on 'em but one,
a bit of glass stuck against the wall, and I never saw such a sight in my
a bitter cold morning.  Seeing, now, that there were no curtains to the window,
a chap is he --does he always keep such late hours?  It was now hard upon
a door mat, and parade the streets of any Christian town in that sort of
a hair of your head.  Stop your grinning, shouted I, and why didn't you
a man smoking in bed with me.  It's dangerous.  Besides, I aint insured.
a nice bed: Sal and me slept in that ere bed the night we were spliced.
a tomahawk!  Queequeg! --in the name of goodness, Queequeg, wake!  At length,
aboard of a whaleman in the South Seas, and so landed in this Christian
about in the most unnatural manner.  At last extinguishing the fire, he took
abreast.  There, said the landlord, placing the candle on a crazy old sea
accustomed to boots, his pair of damp, wrinkled cowhide ones -- probably not
afternoon of the 21st June, the longest day in the year in our hemisphere.  I
again and go to sleep.  Queequeg, look here --you sabbee me, I sabbee you --this
against this unknown harpooneer.  Thinks I, I'll wait awhile; he must be
air over me from under the sill of the window, that this plan would never do
all men, they possessed the least assurance in the parlor.  But perhaps the
all seated at the table, and I was preparing to hear some good stories about
all, down the throat of the tempest.  But think not that this famous town has
and ashes a little, he made a polite offer of it to the little negro.  But the
and at Bombay, in the Apollo Green, live Yankees have often scared the
and my stepmother who, somehow or other, was all the time whipping me, or
and somehow, Sam got pitched on the floor, and came near breaking his arm.
and that one he's trying to sell to-night, cause to-morrow's Sunday, and it
and that the street being very narrow, the house opposite commanded a plain
and then proceeded to wash himself.  At that time in the morning any
another grin, and throwing them into the great stove in the middle of the
another with a sou'-wester and a bombazine cloak.  No town-bred dandy will
answered, generally he's an early bird -- airley to bed and airley to rise
apartment to myself.  Thinks I, Queequeg, under the circumstances, this is a
arm of his tattooed all over with an interminable Cretan labyrinth of a
around this town?  That's precisely it, said the landlord, and I told him
as I was, and remembering what the landlord said about the harpooneer's not
as carelessly as if he were a sportsman bagging a dead woodcock.  All these
as he was, he still hugged me tightly, as though naught but death should part
at all, especially as another current from the rickety door met the one from
away at his pipe and sitting up in bed.  You gettee in, he added, motioning
bamboozingly story is this you are telling me?  getting into a towering rage.
be backward, but let him cheerfully allow himself to spend and be spent in
be, to keep quiet, and let me get up and light the lamp again.  But his
beaver hat, a very tall one, by the by, and then --still minus his trowsers
bed that.  Why, afore we give it up, Sal used to put our Sam and little
bed!  the small of my back ached to think of it.  And it was so light too;
bed.  But what is this on the chest?  I took it up, and held it close to the
bedfellow; he's been in a fight, got dreadfully cut, and here he is, just
beefsteaks, done rare.  Enough, that when breakfast was over he withdrew like
began to think that after all I might be cherishing unwarrantable prejudices
begged him as well as I could, to accelerate his toilet somewhat, and
bench in the room was about four inches higher than the planed one --so there
bent upon narrowly observing so curious a creature.  When, at last, his mind
beseeching her as a particular favor to give me a good slippering for my
besides the Feegeeans, Tongatabooarrs, Erromanggoans, Pannangians, and
bespeaking his sea-outfit, he orders bell-buttons to his waistcoats; straps
between the andirons.  the chimney jambs and all the bricks inside were very
biscuit on top and applying the flame from the lamp, he kindled the shavings
bit of mirror against the wall, begins a vigorous scraping, or rather
blackish looking squares.  Yes, it's just as I thought, he's a terrible
brawny company, with bosky beards; an unshorn, shaggy set, all wearing
breakfast.  They say that men who have seen the world, thereby become quite at
breath, that's a purty long sarmon for a chap that rips a little now and
broad awake, feeling a great deal worse than I have ever done since, even
business as selling the heads of dead idolators?  Depend upon it, landlord,
but I rolled about a good deal, and could not sleep for a long time.  At
but jumped out of my pantaloons and boots, and then blowing out the light
by dint of much wriggling, and loud and incessant expostulations upon the
came into the room light in hand, and leaping from the bed I ran up to him.
can only give me half a one; that the other half belongs to a certain
candle a good way off from me on the floor in one corner, and then began
cannibals stand chatting at street corners; savages outright; many of whom
centre table, could see no other furniture belonging to the place, but a
chance of spending a sufferable night unless in some other person's bed, I
cheek like
chest and arms.  As I live, these covered parts of him were checkered with
chest that did double duty as a wash-stand and centre table; there, make
chief mates, and second mates, and third mates, and sea carpenters, and sea
chimney and packed me off to bed, though it was only two o'clock in the
clear space against the wall, leaving a little interval between, for my back
closely seated by my bedside.  For what seemed ages piled on ages, I lay
clouds of tobacco smoke.  The next moment the light was extinguished, and
come to anchor somewhere --come along then; do come; won't ye come?  I
comely looking cannibal.  What's all this fuss I have been making about,
coming home at all that night, it being so very late, I made no more ado,
compare with a country-bred one -- I mean a downright bumpkin dandy --a fellow
completely independent of the squares of tattooing.  To be sure, it might be
complexion of a third still lingers a tropic tawn, but slightly bleached
confounded about the stranger, i confess i was now as much afraid of him as if
consciousness of knowing something about me seemed slowly dawning over him.
considered the matter a moment, and then up stairs we went, and I was
contented himself with restricting his ablutions to his chest, arms, and
coopers, and sea blacksmiths, and harpooneers, and ship keepers; a brown and
cordially justified his bringing his harpoon into breakfast with him, and
could be mended with a chair.  But it was a foot too narrow, and the other
could make eider down of a pine plank.  So gathering up the shavings with
country.  I quaked to think of it.  A peddler of heads too --perhaps the heads
crawl up the chimney, as i had seen a little sweep do a few days previous;
curious, certainly more comical.
cutlery with a vengeance.  Afterwards I wondered the less at this operation
dark.  Landlord, for God's sake, Peter Coffin!  shouted I.  Landlord!
darkness.  Instantly I felt a shock running through all my frame; nothing was
devil fetch that harpooneer, thought I, but stop, couldn't I steal a march on
difficulty having opened his bag, he commenced fumbling in it, and presently
dismally calculating that sixteen entire hours must elapse before I could hope
dismissed it.  For who could tell but what the next morning, so soon as I
dreadnaught, which he had previously hung on a chair, he fumbled in the
dreams --I opened my eyes, and the before sun-lit room was now wrapped in outer
dress first and then leave me to dress afterwards, leaving the whole
dropping in before long.  I'll have a good look at him then, and perhaps we
each other as though they had never been out of sight of some sheepfold among
ease in manner, quite self-possessed in company.  Not always, though:
effects upon the skin.  Now, while all these ideas were passing through me
else singing some pagan psalmody or other, during which his face twitched
enough civilized to show off his outlandishness in the strangest possible
eschewed coffee and hot rolls, and applied his undivided attention to
exceedingly sharp the long straight edges are always kept.
exhibiting strong symptoms of concluding his business operations, and jumping
eyes, and began creaking and limping about the room, as if, not being much
face.  I was watching to see where he kept his razor, when lo and behold, he
falling among the cannibals, had been tattooed by them.  I concluded that this
feeling as if it were in a horse-collar; and suddenly felt a slight scratch.
feet, sought out my stepmother, and suddenly threw myself at her feet,
felt dreadfully.  But there was no help for it, so up stairs I went to my
figure, no two parts of which were of one precise shade --owing I suppose to
fire, and still hastier
first I knew not what to make of this; but soon an inkling of the truth
follow.  First he takes about a double handful of shavings out of his grego
for a resurrection.  Sixteen hours in
for days and weeks and months afterwards I lost myself in confounding attempts
fresh surprise.  There was no hair on his head --none to speak of at least --
from him against the wall, and then conjured him, whoever or whatever he might
from me; but waking in the morning, I shudderingly remembered it all, and
from the greatest subsequent misfortunes.  At last I must have fallen into a
from the quilt, they so blended their hues together; and it was only by the
from the surgeon.  But at that moment he chanced to turn his face so towards
gaspings and strainings, I inferred he was hard at work booting himself;
genteelly.  We will not speak of all Queequeg's peculiarities here; how he
glimpse of so outlandish an individual as Queequeg circulating among the
goin' out of the door with four heads strung on a string, for all the airth
going to bed, yet no sign of my harpooneer.  Landlord!  said I, what sort of
great rudeness; staring at him from the bed, and watching all his toilette
great whales on the high seas --entire strangers to them --and duelled them dead
guise?  I put it on, to try it, and it weighed me down like a hamper, being
guttural noises from the devotee, who seemed to be praying in a sing-song or
guttural responses satisfied me at once that he but ill comprehended my
had not been a small degree civilized, he very probably would not have
hammock lashed up, and thrown upon the floor in one corner; also a large
hands.  He then donned his waistcoat, and taking up a piece of hard soap on
harpooneer hears you a slanderin' his head.  I'll break it for him, said I,
harpooneer, in the course of his distant voyages, must have met with a
harpooneer.  And about this harpooneer, whom I have not yet seen, you
harpooning of his cheeks.  Thinks I, Queequeg, this is using Rogers's best
has just arrived from the south seas, where he bought up a lot of 'balmed New
he at last succeeded in drawing out the biscuit; then blowing off the heat
he began feeling me.  Stammering out something, I knew not what, I rolled away
he couldn't sell it here, the market's overstocked.  With what?  shouted I.
he did not altogether remember how I came to be there, though a dim
he exclaimed I vum it's Sunday --you won't see that harpooneer to-night; he's
head now looked for all the world like a mildewed skull.  Had not the stranger
hidden image, feeling but ill at ease meantime --to see what was next to
him --bolt his door inside, and jump into his bed, not to be wakened by the
his keeping his arm at sea unmethodically in sun and shade, his shirt
his own proper person, afford stuff for a good joke to anybody, let him not
his unearthly complexion, that part of it, I mean, lying round about, and
holding it to the light, with his mouth at the handle, he puffed out great
however, he turned round --when, good heavens!  what a sight!  Such a face!  It
if a parcel of dark green frogs were running up the trunks of young palms.  It
immediate vicinity of the spot where I had thought to spend the night.  The
imminent jeopardy of many heads, and grappling the beefsteaks towards him.
in all respects safe to spend the night with him.  And in the first place,
in fixed reality, and then I lay only alive to the comical predicament.  For
in the South Seas; and perhaps the sun there produced these extraordinary
in the room.  I was all eagerness to see his face, but he kept it averted for
in the transition state -- neither caterpillar nor butterfly.  He was just
inexplicable in him.
interval I spent in deliberating what to say, was a fatal one.  Taking up his
intimate and confidential one in the highest degree.  I now demand of you to
into a sacrificial blaze.  Presently, after many hasty snatches into the
into bed with me, I thought it was high time, now or never, before the light
it was the devil himself who had thus broken into my room at the dead of
it with a sticking-plaster shirt.  Still more, his very legs were marked, as
it.  Now, take away the awful fear, and my sensations at feeling the
it; --didn't I tell ye, he was peddlin' heads around town? --but turn flukes
jiffy; and so saying he lighted a candle and held it towards me, offering to
kill-e.  And so saying the lighted tomahawk began flourishing about me in the
land trunk.  Likewise, there was a parcel of outlandish bone fish hooks on the
landlord's.  It's broke a'ready, said he.  Broke, said I -- broke, do you
large door mat, ornamented at the edges with little tinkling tags something
last I slid off into a light doze, and had pretty nearly made a good offing
last-mentioned haunts you see only sailors; but in New Bedford, actual
lead the way.  But I stood irresolute; when looking at a clock in the corner,
leg of ye.  Good night, landlord, said I, you may go.  I turned in, and
liable to a criminal prosecution.  Wall, said the landlord, fetching a long
life.  I tore myself out of it in such a hurry that I gave myself a kink in
light in one hand, and that identical New Zealand head in the other, the
light, and felt it, and smelt it, and tried every way possible to arrive at
like a marshal's baton.
like a string of inions.  This account cleared up the otherwise unaccountable
like lightning, this harpooneer never noticed me at all.  But, after some
like the stained porcupine quills round an Indian moccasin.  There was a hole
little devil did not seem to fancy such dry sort of fare at all; he never
little room in the third floor, undressed myself as slowly as possible so as
looked for all the world like a strip of that same patchwork quilt.  Indeed,
looking at him a moment.  For all his tattooings he was on the whole a clean,
made to order either --rather pinched and tormented him at the first go off of
malice towards him, though he had been skylarking with me not a little in the
man sleepe you --you sabbee?  Me sabbee plenty --grunted Queequeg, puffing
manikin was a real baby preserved in some similar manner.  But seeing that it
manner.  You had almost thought I had been his wife.  The counterpane was of
manner.  his education was not yet completed.  He was an undergraduate.  If he
matter of my bedfellow.  However, a good laugh is a mighty good thing, and
mattress was stuffed with corn-cobs or broken crockery, there is no telling,
may be, he can't sell his head.  Can't sell his head? --What sort of a
may become jolly good bedfellows after all --there's no telling.
me --but at the same time what could I think of a harpooneer who stayed out a
me to get into bed --rolling over to one side as much as to say --I wont touch a
me.  But at length all the past night's events soberly recurred, one by one,
mean?  Sartain, and that's the very reason he can't sell it, I guess.
meaning.  Who-e debel you? --he at last said -- you no speak-e, dam-me, I
men, all athirst for gain and glory in the fishery.  They are mostly young,
mere crossing of Siberia in a sledge drawn by dogs as Ledyard did, or the
middle of the room thinking.  I then took off my coat, and thought a little
misbehavior; anything indeed but condemning me to lie abed such an
monkey jackets for morning gowns.  You could pretty plainly tell how long each
more in my shirt sleeves.  But beginning to feel very cold now, half undressed
most violent knockings?  it seemed no bad idea; but upon second thoughts I
motions; for the time my curiosity getting the better of my breeding.
moved his lips.  All these strange antics were accompanied by still stranger
much reason to fear me, as I have to be afraid of him.  Better sleep with a
must indeed be a heathen.  Going to his heavy grego, or wrapall, or
my linen would get on fire.  But thank heaven, at that moment the landlord
mysterious harpooneer had been wearing it of a rainy day.  I went up in it to
mystery, and showed that the landlord, after all, had had no idea of fooling
natives.  But New Bedford beats all Water street and Wapping.  In these
never slept better in my life.
night.  In fact, I was so afraid of him that I was not game enough just then
no idea of sleeping with a madman; and you, sir, you I mean, landlord, you,
nothing but a good coat of tropical tanning; but I never heard of a hot sun's
nothing but a small scalp-knot twisted up on his forehead.  His bald purplish
now flying into a passion again at this unaccountable farrago of the
now full of the boarders who had been dropping in the night previous, and
occurred to me.  I remembered a story of a white man --a whaleman too--who,
of his own brothers.  He might take a fancy to mine --heavens!  look at that
of stalwart frames; fellows who have felled forests, and now seek to drop
of this head-peddling purple rascal altogether passed my comprehension.
on its back, and exactly the color of a three days' old Congo baby.
one had been ashore.  This young fellow's healthy cheek is like a sun-toasted
one knows that in most people's estimation, to do anything coolly is to do it
only harpooneers, cannibals, and bumpkins to show her visitors.  Not at all.
or chapel for his Congo idol.  I now screwed my eyes hard towards the half
or slit in the middle of this mat, as you see the same in South American
outside; a man can be honest in any sort of skin.  But then, what to make of
over the bed.  Though none of the most elegant, it yet stood the scrutiny
particularly to get into his pantaloons as soon as possible.  He complied,
partly lying on it as the arm did when I first awoke, I could hardly tell it
patchwork, full of odd little parti-colored squares and triangles; and this
pear in hue, and would seem to smell almost as musky; he cannot have been
peddling, you see, and I don't see what on airth keeps him so late, unless,
perfectly still, and resolved not to say a word till spoken to.  Holding a
persist in telling me the most mystifying and exasperating stories, tending
placed in mine.  My arm hung over the counterpane, and the nameless,
pocket, and places them carefully before the idol; then laying a bit of ship
pockets, and produced at length a curious little deformed image with a hunch
polite society of a civilized town, that astonishment soon departed upon
polite they are.  I pay this particular compliment to Queequeg, because he
ponchos.  But could it be possible that any sober harpooneer would get into
popped out of the room, the harpooneer might be standing in the entry, all
private when putting on his boots.  But Queequeg, do you see, was a creature
prodigious bed, almost big enough indeed for any four harpooneers to sleep
proved to be.  For now the savage goes up to the empty fireplace, and removing
pulled out a sort of tomahawk, and a seal-skin wallet with the hair on.
queer proceedings increased my uncomfortableness, and seeing him now
rather too scarce a good thing; the more's the pity.  So, if any one man, in
ready to knock me down!  Still, looking around me again, and seeing no possible
reflections just here are occasioned by the circumstance that after we were
room, he went about his business, and left me in a brown study.  I now took
room, wrapped up in his great pilot monkey jacket, and sporting his harpoon
rude shelf, the four walls, and a papered fireboard representing a man
sallied out for a stroll.
sang out, I could not help it now; and giving a sudden grunt of astonishment
savage's side, as if it were a hatchet-faced baby.  A pretty pickle, truly,
savage, he never would have dreamt of getting under the bed to put them on.
saw a glimmer of light come into the room from under the door.  Lord save me,
seaman's bag, containing the harpooneer's wardrobe, no doubt in lieu of a
seemed made up touching the character of his bedfellow, and he became, as it
seemed to be mightily tickled at something beyond my comprehension.  No, he
sending me to bed supperless, --my mother dragged me by the legs out of the
sense of delicacy, say what you will; it is marvellous how essentially
sense of weight and pressure that I could tell that Queequeg was hugging me.
set of sea-dogs, many of whom without the slightest bashfulness had boarded
shades lighter; you might say a touch of satin wood is in him.  In the
shelf over the fire-place, and a tall harpoon standing at the head of the
shook himself all over like a Newfoundland dog just from the water, and sat
should see the comical things he does upon reaching the seaport.  In
signs and sounds gave me to understand that, if it pleased me, he would
silence.  And not only that, but they looked embarrassed.  Yes, here were a
similar adventure.  And what is it, thought I, after all!  It's only his
sir, by trying to induce me to do so knowingly, would thereby render yourself
sleeves irregularly rolled up at various times --this same arm of his, I say,
slope, to show forth in one array, contrasting climates, zone by zone.
sober cannibal than a drunken Christian.  Landlord, said I, tell him to
soft enough to suit me, and I did not know how all the planing in the world
some satisfactory conclusion concerning it.  I can compare it to nothing but a
some time while employed in unlacing the bag's mouth.  This accomplished,
something that completely fascinated my attention, and convinced me that he
sooty, so that I thought this fire-place made a very appropriate little shrine
speak out and tell me who and what this harpooneer is, and whether I shall be
spell would be broken.  I knew not how this consciousness at last glided away
squares; he seemed to have been in a Thirty Years' War, and just escaped from
stash his tomahawk there, or pipe, or whatever you call it; tell him to
stepmothers, and back I had to go to my room.  For several hours I lay there
stood between me and the door, I would have bolted out of it quicker than ever
stop smoking, in short, and I will turn in with him.  But I don't fancy having
stranger entered the room, and without looking towards the bed, placed his
straps in the first howling gale, when thou art driven, straps, buttons, and
streets, and the sound of gay voices all over the house.  I felt worse and
striking a whale.  Of things not properly belonging to the room, there was a
supernatural hand in mine were very similar, in their strangeness, to those
sure there is more in that man than you perhaps think for.  The bar-room was
swallow-tailed coat, girdled with a sailor-belt and sheath-knife.  Here comes
takes the harpoon from the bed corner, slips out the long wooden stock,
taking a long solitary walk on an empty stomach, in the negro heart of
taking my first daylight stroll through the streets of New Bedford.  In
tanning a white man into a purplish yellow one.  However, I had never been
tanning his hands.  Now when a country dandy like this takes it into his head
tell me that that infernal harpooneer was a cannibal?  I thought ye know'd
tell, but his next movement was to crush himself --boots in hand, and hat on
that harpooneer is a dangerous man.  He pays reg'lar, was the rejoinder.
that too without delay.  I come to your house and want a bed; you tell me you
that way.  And the man that has anything bountifully laughable about him, be
that yarn to me --I'm not green.  May be not, taking out a stick and
that, Sal said it wouldn't do.  Come along here, I'll give ye a glim in a
that, in the dog-days, will mow his two acres in buckskin gloves for fear of
the Green Mountains.  A curious sight; these bashful bears, these timid
the affrighted ladies.  Regent street is not unknown to Lascars and Malays;
the axe and snatch the whale-lance.  Many are as green as the Green Mountains
the bar-room accosted the grinning landlord very pleasantly.  I cherished no
the bed, but he had disappeared.  Folding back the counterpane, I stooped
the bed-side, I got up and took off my monkey jacket, and then stood in the
the head of the table, too, it so chanced; as cool as an icicle.  To be sure
the idol up very unceremoniously, and bagged it again in his grego pocket
the light, that I plainly saw they could not be sticking-plasters at all,
the measure of the bench, and found that it was a foot too short; but that
the neck.  I sat down on the side of the bed, and commenced thinking about
the papered fire-board, sets up this little hunchbacked image, like a tenpin,
the rest into the public room, lighted his tomahawk-pipe, and was sitting
the rest of his toilet was soon achieved, and he proudly marched out of the
the same calling, all of kindred tastes --looking round as sheepishly at
the same squares as his face; his back, too, was all over the same dark
the sun shining in at the window, and a great rattling of coaches in the
the wash-stand centre-table, dipped it into water and commenced lathering his
the window, and both together formed a series of small whirlwinds in the
then.  But be easy, be easy, this here harpooneer I have been tellin' you of
there quietly digesting and smoking with his inseparable hat on, when I
there, frozen with the most awful fears, not daring to drag away my hand;
thinks I, that must be the harpooneer, the infernal head-peddler.  But I lay
this blessed Saturday night, or rather Sunday morning, in peddling his head
this head-peddling harpooneer, and his door mat.  After thinking some time on
this in not only a civil but a really kind and charitable way.  I stood
this wild cannibal, tomahawk between his teeth, sprang into bed with me.  I
this.  I had been cutting up some caper or other --I think it was trying to
thoroughfares nigh the docks, any considerable seaport will frequently offer
those black squares on his cheeks.  they were stains of some sort or other.  At
though I tried to move his arm --unlock his bridegroom clasp --yet, sleeping
though by no law of propriety that I ever heard of, is any man required to be
thought I; abed here in a strange house in the broad day, with a cannibal and
thought i to myself --the man's a human being just as I am: he has just as
three days landed from his Indian voyage.  That man next him looks a few
to address him, and demand a satisfactory answer concerning what seemed
to be seen, and nothing was to be heard; but a supernatural hand seemed
to beget in me an uncomfortable feeling towards the man whom
to churches.  He wanted to, last Sunday, but I stopped him just as he was
to explain the mystery.  Nay, to this very hour, I often puzzle myself with
to his canvas trowsers.  Ah, poor Hay-Seed!  how bitterly will burst those
to kill time, and with a bitter sigh got between the sheets.  I lay there
to make a distinguished reputation, and joins the great whale-fishery, you
to me with his tomahawk, and throwing the clothes to one side.  He really did
to settle down in.  But I soon found that there came such a draught of cold
to view the queerest looking nondescripts from foreign parts.  Even in
tolerably well.  I then glanced round the room; and besides the bedstead and
tomahawk from the table, he examined the head of it for an instant, and then
tomahawk scattered the hot tobacco ashes about me till I thought
tomahawk!  But there was no time for shuddering, for now the savage went about
towards the land of Nod, when I heard a heavy footfall in the passage, and
treated me with so much civility and consideration, while I was guilty of
troubled himself with boots at all; but then, if he had not been still a
troubled nightmare of a doze; and slowly waking from it --half steeped in
true I take to be good evidence that this harpooneer is stark mad, and I've
tumbled into bed, and commended myself to the care of heaven.  Whether that
twelve o'clock.  The landlord chuckled again with his lean chuckle, and
unbecomingness of his hugging a fellow male in that matrimonial sort of style,
uncommonly shaggy and thick, and I thought a little damp, as though this
unendurable length of time.  But she was the best and most conscientious of
unheeded reel about the streets, you will see other sights still more
unimaginable, silent form or phantom, to which the hand belonged, seemed
unsheathes the head, whets it a little on his boot, and striding up to the
up in bed, stiff as a pike-staff, looking at me, and rubbing his eyes as if
us twain.  I now strove to rouse him --
ushered into a small room, cold as a clam, and furnished, sure enough, with a
using it there without ceremony; reaching over the table with it, to the
very civilized overture; but, the truth is, these savages have an innate
view into the room, and observing more and more the indecorous figure that
warrior whalemen!  But as for Queequeg --why, Queequeg sat there among them --at
was a reality or a dream, I never could entirely settle.  The circumstance was
was no yoking them.  I then placed the first bench lengthwise along the only
was not at all limber, and that it glistened a good deal like polished ebony,
was now quite plain that he must be some abominable savage or other shipped
was of a dark purplish, yellow color, here and there stuck over with large,
was put out, to break the spell into which I had so long been bound.  But the
were well worth unusual regarding.  He commenced dressing at top by donning his
were, reconciled to the fact; he jumped out upon the floor, and by certain
whaling; to my no small surprise, nearly every man maintained a profound
when I came to know of what fine steel the head of a harpoon is made, and how
whence they came.  In some things you would think them but a few hours old.
which I experienced on waking up and seeing Queequeg's pagan arm thrown round
whittling a toothpick, but I rayther guess you'll be done brown if that ere
whom I had not as yet had a good look at.  They were nearly all whalemen;
window, but it was the second floor back.  I am no coward, but what to make
withal; he doubtless has tarried whole weeks ashore.  But who could show a
withdrawals of his fingers (whereby he seemed to be scorching them badly),
without winking; and yet, here they sat at a social breakfast table --all of
working away at the knotted cords of the large bag I before spoke of as being
worse --at last I got up, dressed, and softly going down in my stockinged
would not do to be sellin' human heads about the streets when folks is goin'
yet carry on their bones unholy flesh.  It makes a stranger stare.  But,
yet ever thinking that if I could but stir it one single inch, the horrid
you design for my bedfellow --a sort of connexion, landlord, which is an
you what it is, landlord, said I, quite calmly, you'd better stop spinning
you will be so good as to unsay that story about selling his head, which if
yourself comfortable now, and good night to ye.  I turned round from eyeing
