





























     ( Foresail
     ( Stubb solus, and
     Ahab sitting alone, and gazing out.  I leave a white and turbid wake;
     By the Mainmast; Starbuck leaning
     Drink and pass!  he cried, handing the heavy charged flagon to the nearest
     French Sailor Hist, boys!  let's have a jig or two before we ride to anchor
     I, Ishmael, was one of that crew; my shouts
     Meantime the sky darkens -- the wind rises.)
     Silently obeying the order, the three harpooneers now stood with the detached
     Stab me not with that keen steel!  Cant them; cant them over!  know ye not
     The cabin; by the stern windows;
     against it.  My soul is more than matched; she's overmanned; and by a
     are some remarkable documents that may be consulted.  Nevertheless, some there
     as a body.  There are those this day among them, who, though intelligent and
     comes the music; now for it!  Azore Sailor ( Ascending, and pitching the
     follow.) Our captain stood upon the deck, A spy-glass in his hand, A
     from the pewter.  Now, three to three, ye stand.  Commend the murderous
     gained his distinctive appellation of the white Whale; a name, indeed,
     lying in various attitudes, all singing in chorus.) Farewell and
     me through!  Peace!  ye revellers, and set the watch!  Oh, life! 'tis in an
     mending a brace.) Ha!  ha!  ha!  ha!  hem!  clear my throat! --I've been
     or if indeed he should ever be made to spout thick
     rises and discovers the watch standing, lounging, leaning, and
     scuttle,)  Star--bo--l-e-e-n-s, a-h-o-y!  Eight bells there below!  Tumble
     sleep or lie among the coils of rigging.  Oaths a-plenty.) Azore
     sleepy.) Don't know where it is.  French Sailor Beat thy belly, then, and
     some lurid woe would shrivel me up, had I it.  Yet is there hope.  Time and
     tambourine up the scuttle.)
     under the windlass) Jollies?  Lord help such jollies!  Crish, crash!  there
     with their harpoons in their hands, while his three mates stood at his side
 ( The half of them dance to the tambourine; some go below; some
'Twas not so hard a task.  I thought to find one stubborn, at
'em through it.  Tell 'em to avast dreaming of their lasses.  Tell 'em it's
( grimly) None.  St.  Jago's Sailor That Spaniard's mad or drunk.  But that
-- here's a hollow!  Men, ye seem the years; so brimming life is gulped and
--Olassen and Povelson --declaring the Sperm Whale not only to be a
--Take some one of your own size; don't pommel me!  No, ye've knocked me
--flutterings!  lip!  heart!  hip!  all graze: unceasing touch and go!  not
--give us a whiff, Tash. ( They cease dancing, and gather in clusters.
--long swallows, men; 'tis hot as Satan's hoof.  So, so; it goes round
--not thou nor I can bear the change!  How then, if so be transplanted to yon
--shirr!  shirr! --but spoken of once!  and only this evening -- it makes me
--that I feel; the jagged edge galls me so, my brain seems to beat against
--the Heeva-Heeva!  Ah!  low veiled, high palmed Tahiti!  I still rest me on thy
.. < chapter xl 2  MIDNIGHT, FORECASTLE HARPOONERS AND SAILORS >
.. < chapter xli 9  MOBY DICK >
.. < chapter xxxix 2  FIRST NIGHT-WATCH FORE-TOP >
.. < chapter xxxvii 7  SUNSET >
.. < chapter xxxviii 26  DUSK >
.. <p 164 >
.. <p 165 >
.. <p 165 >
.. <p 166 >
.. <p 166 >
.. <p 167 >
.. <p 168 >
.. <p 169 >
.. <p 170 >
.. <p 171 >
.. <p 172 >
.. <p 173 >
.. <p 174 >
.. <p 175 >
.. <p 175 >
.. <p 176 >
.. <p 177 >
.. <p 178 >
.. <p 179 >
.. <p 180 >
.. <p 181 >
American flag, who have never hostilely encountered the Sperm Whale, but
Arkansas duellist at his foe, blindly seeking with a six inch blade to reach
Avast the chorus!  Eight bells there!  d'ye hear, bell-boy?  Strike the bell
Burkes and blinded Bendigoes!  I will not say as school-boys do to bullies,
But he drilled deep down, and blasted all my reason out of me!  I think I see
But those wild eyes met his, as the bloodshot eyes of the prairie wolves
Dick; and a still greater number who, chancing only to hear of him distantly
For in his Natural History, the Baron himself affirms that at sight of the
French Sailor Merry-mad!  Hold up thy hoop, Pip, till I jump through it!
Good night --good night! ( waving his hand, he moves from the window.)
Hand it me.  Why, now, this pewter had run brimming again, wer't not thou St.
Here you are, Pip; and there's the windlass-bitts; up you mount!  Now, boys!
How the three pines shake!  Pines are the hardest sort of tree to live when
I must help him to it.  Will I, nill I, the ineffable thing has tied me to
I've willed, I'll do!  They think me mad --Starbuck does; but I'm demoniac, I
Jinglers, you say? --there goes another, dropped off; I pound it so.  China
Knife thee heartily!  big frame, small spirit!  All A row!  a row!  a row!
Lascar Sailor By Brahma!  boys, it'll be douse sail soon.  The sky-born,
Maltese Sailor ( Reclining and shaking his cap.) It's the waves --the
Moby Dick; those things had gone far to shake the fortitude of many brave
Over unsounded gorges, through the rifled hearts of mountains, under
Perchance ye need it not.  Down lances!  And now, ye mates, I do appoint ye
Povelson, the superstitious belief in them is, in some vicissitudes of their
Sailor ( Dancing.) Go it, Pip!  Bang it, bell-boy!  Rig it, dig it, stig
Sailor ( Reclining on a mat.) Hail, holy nakedness of our dancing girls!
Sailor Aye; girls and a green! --then I'll hop with ye; yea, turn
Sailor Crack, crack, old ship!  so long as thou crackest, thou holdest!  Well
Sailor Rattle thy teeth, then, and pound away; make a pagoda of thyself.
Sailor Spell oh! --whew!  this is worse than pulling after whales in a calm
Southern whaling.  Nor is the pre-eminent tremendousness of the great Sperm
Spanish Sailor No; Daggoo showing his teeth.  Daggoo ( springing) Swallow
Sperm Whale when beneath the surface remain, in great part, unaccountable to
Sperm Whale, all fish (sharks included) are struck with the most lively
Starbuck to Stubb; from Stubb to Flask.  It seemed as though, by some
Steady, helmsman!  steady.  This is the sort of weather when brave hearts snap
Stubb and Flask looked sideways from him; the honest eye of Starbuck fell
Stubb?  Here's a carcase.  I know not all that may be coming, but be it what
Tashtego ( with a whiff) A row a'low, and a row aloft --Gods and men --both
The irons!  take them; hold them while I fill!  Forthwith, slowly going from
The three mates quailed before his strong, sustained, and mystic aspect.
There's naught so sweet on earth --heaven may not match it! --as those swift
Throw yourselves!  Legs!  Legs!  Iceland Sailor I don't like your floor,
Turk, no hired Venetian or Malay, could have smote him with more seeming
Vitus' imp --away, thou ague!  Advance, ye mates!  Cross your lances full
We are the lads to hunt him up his whale!  All Aye!  aye!  Old Manx Sailor
Whale anywhere more feelingly comprehended, than on board of those prows which
Whale, by chance caught sight of him; in the beginning of the thing they had
Who'd go climbing after chestnuts now?  But there they go, all cursing, and
[ A burst of revelry from the forecastle.] Oh, God!  to sail with such a
a long distance, to those who knew him.  The rest of his body was so streaked,
a row!  Plunge in with ye!  English Sailor Fair play!  Snatch the Spaniard's
a single news-telling sail of any sort; the inordinate length of each
according to specific accounts, he had over and over again evinced in his
adieu to you, Spanish ladies!  Farewell and adieu to you, ladies of Spain!  Our
afraid than the isle fort at Cattegat, put there to fight the Baltic with
aft!  Methinks it pictures life.  Foremost through the sparkling sea shoots on
against the rocks with such violence as to cause instantaneous death.  And
alive; it cannot be much matter of surprise that some whalemen should go
all predestinated.  I heard not all his talk with Starbuck; but to my poor
all the more fell for that in his frantic morbidness he at last came to
all the waves were women, then I'd go drown, and chassee with them evermore!
am madness maddened!  That wild madness that's only calm to comprehend
among the frantic crew; when, waving his free hand to them, they all
and portents concerning him, not a few of the fishermen recalled, in reference
and say to himself, how d'ye do?  Partners!  I must have partners!  Sicilian
and spotted, and marbled with the same shrouded hue, that, in the end, he had
and to cries and maledictions against the white whale, the spirits
and vaguely, without the specific details of any certain calamity, and
any other whale of that species.  But at length, such calamities did ensue in
appears.  So that in many cases such a panic did he finally strike, that few
are just crossing swords, pell-mell they'll go lunging presently.  Danish
around him, and oars and men both whirling in the eddies; one captain,
around suddenly, and, bearing down upon them, either stave their boats to
as of late the Sperm Whale fishery had been marked by various and not
as seldom or never for a whole twelvemonth or more on a stretch, to encounter
ashore, and keeled hulls split at sea.  Our captain has his birth-mark; look
assaults.  More than all, his treacherous retreats struck more of dismay than
at home doing now?  Crying its eyes out? --Giving a party to the last arrived
attacked; therefore it was, that those who by accident ignorantly gave
aye, sir, just through with this job --coming.
ballroom of it.  Dance on, lads, you're young; I was once. 3d Nantucket
battle to Moby Dick; such hunters, perhaps, for the most part, were content
been divulged, even to the most erudite research; so the hidden ways of the
before me.  Well
black.  Daggoo What of that?  Who's afraid of black's afraid of me!  I'm
blood, such a sight would be but a ghastly deception; for again in
brawlers!  Humph!  Belfast Sailor A row!  arrah a row!  The Virgin be blessed,
but immortal (for immortality is but ubiquity in time); that though groves
but of all sailors, they are by all odds the most directly brought into
but once take the full-forced shock, then mine own electric thing, that had
can't be, or else in his one case our old Mogul's fire-waters are somewhat
captain's commanded. -- 1st Nantucket Sailor Oh, boys, don't be sentimental;
captured far north in the Pacific, in whose bodies have been found the barbs
chalices!  Bestow them, ye who are now made parties to this indissoluble
chewed boats, and the sinking limbs of torn comrades, they swam out of the
come what will, one comfort's always left -- that unfailing comfort is, it's
completely escaped them; to some minds it was not an unfair presumption, I
consternation to every other creature in the sea, but also to be so incredibly
contact with whatever is appallingly astonishing in the sea; face to face
contradictory speculations regarding them, especially concerning the mystic
courageous enough in offering battle to the Greenland or Right whale, would
damned, most subtly and most malignantly!  damned in the midst of Paradise!
dance over your grave, I will --that's the bitterest threat of your
day has the original prestige of the Sperm Whale, as fearfully distinguished
deathful whaleboat's bow -- Death to Moby Dick!  God hunt us all, if we do not
decline a contest with the Sperm Whale; at any rate, there are plenty of
did in the end incorporate with themselves all manner of morbid hints, and
disorderly way they were sprinkled over the entire watery circumference,
dispersed; and Ahab retired within his cabin.
done!  Let me touch the axis.  So saying, with extended arm, he grasped the
done!  The mate there holds ye to it stiffly.  He's no more
down, and I am up again; but ye have run and hidden.  Come forth from behind
downright.  In vain!  cried Ahab; but, maybe, 'tis well.  For did ye three
dread in my soul.  A wild, mystical, sympathetical feeling was in me; Ahab's
eight, thou Pip!  thou blackling!  and let me call the watch.  I've the sort
else ye swerve yourselves!  man has ye there.  Swerve me?  The path to my
enjoy.  Gifted with the high perception, I lack the low, enjoying power;
enough in the earthly make and incontestable character of the monster to
even the modern Christians ascribe one-half of the worlds; which the ancient
ever-brimming goblet's rim, the warm waves blush like wine.  The gold brow
every apparent symptom of alarm, he had several times been known to turn
every one of them, almost, as boldly and fearlessly lowered for him, as for
excellently.  It spiralizes in ye; forks out at the serpent-snapping eye.
existence; only a few of them, comparatively, had knowingly seen him; while
eye Starbuck then looked something as I the other evening felt.  Be sure the
fatal encounter, Ahab had cherished a wild vindictiveness against the whale,
fatalities had attended his chase.  But though similar disasters, however
ferocious as continually to be athirst for human blood.  Nor even down to so
fiery emotion accumulated within the Leyden jar of his own magnetic life.
filliping to others.  We sing; they sleep --aye, lie down there, like
fine whales, Hand, boys, over hand!  So, be cheery, my lads!  may your hearts
fixed purpose is laid with iron rails, whereon my soul is grooved to run.
frequented by the Sperm Whale fishermen.  But not all of them knew of his
from all other species of the leviathan, died out of the minds of the whalemen
from the Quarter-Deck Eight bells there, forward! 2nd Nantucket Sailor
from the battle if offered.  One of the wild suggestings referred to, as at
gay and fleeting As bubbles that swim, on the beaker's brim, And break on the
gentlemen and noblemen, my valiant harpooneers.  Disdain the task?  What, when
glances of warm, wild bosoms in the dance, when the over-arboring arms hide
goes the jib-stay!  Blang-whang!  God!  Duck lower, Pip, here comes the royal
gone.  Steward, refill!  Attend now, my braves.  I have mustered ye all round
grasshopper!  Long-Island Sailor Well, well, ye sulkies, there's plenty more
green navies and the green-skulled crews!  Well, well; belike the whole
green the first day i brought ye thence; now worn and wilted quite.  Ah me!
ground-tier butts.  At 'em again!  There, take this copper-pump, and hail
had gone up with the rest; my oath had been welded with theirs; and
half-formed foetal suggestions of supernatural agencies, which eventually
hard!  Jimmini, what a squall!  But those chaps there are worse yet --they are
harpooneers, I dare say, gay as a frigate's pennant, and so am I--fa, la!
have mercy on this small black boy down here; preserve him from all men that
have no bowels to feel fear!
having been inflicted by an unintelligent agent.  Judge, then, to what pitches
he broods within his sternward cabin, builded over the dead water of the
hearken with a childish fire-side interest and awe, to the wild, strange
hearthstone, or aught hospitable beneath that part of the sun; in such
heathen crew that have small touch of human mothers in them!  Whelped
here I don't.  Fine prospects to 'em; they're on the road to heaven.  Hold on
high, pyramidical white hump.  These were his prominent features; the tokens
high-tide Ganges turned to wind!  Thou showest thy black brow, Seeva!
him; tows me with a cable I have no knife to cut.  Horrible old man!  Who's
his impious end; but feel that
his orders, mind ye that.  I heard old Ahab tell him he must always kill a
his pursuers; and from time to time have originated the most curious and
horizon.  In that ring Cain struck Abel.  Sweet work, right work!  No?  Why
horribles!  I feel funny.  Fa, la!  lirra, skirra!  What's my juicy little pear
hour like this, with soul beat down and held to knowledge, --as wild,
however the general experiences in the fishery may amend such reports as
hunt Moby Dick to his death!  The long, barbed steel goblets were lifted;
hunters were willing to encounter the perils of his jaw.  But there were still
hunters, to whom the story of the White Whale had eventually come.  Nor did
i, the wearer, see not its far flashings; but darkly feel that i wear that,
identify with him, not only all his bodily woes, but all his intellectual and
in Blanket Bay.  What say ye?  There comes the other watch.  Stand by all
in some sort revive a noble custom of my fisherman fathers before me.  O men,
in that of terra firma, wild rumors abound, wherever there is any adequate
incarnation of all those malicious agencies which some deep men feel eating in
individualizing tidings concerning Moby Dick.  It was hardly to be doubted,
inland Strello mountain in Portugal (near whose top there was said to be a
instances, such seemed the White Whale's infernal aforethought of ferocity,
intangible malignity which has been from the beginning; to whose dominion
invested Moby Dick with new terrors unborrowed from anything that visibly
iron part of their harpoons, some three feet long, held, barbs up, before him.
is wrapped by influences all tending to make his fancy pregnant with many a
it has been believed by some whalemen, that the nor' west passage, so long a
it will, I'll go to it laughing.  Such a waggish leering as lurks in all your
it!  Hark ye, lad --fleet interlacings of the limbs --lithe swayings --coyings
it's bad for the digestion!  Take a tonic, follow me! ( Sings, and all
it, quig it, bell-boy; Make fire-flies; break the jinglers!  Pip
it, would be inevitably to be torn into a quick eternity.  on this head, there
itself!  The prophecy was that I should be dismembered; and--Aye!  I lost this
jingle all over like my tambourine --that anaconda of an old man swore 'em in
knife!  A ring, a ring!  Old Manx Sailor Ready formed.  There!  the ringed
knowing that after repeated, intrepid assaults, the White Whale had escaped
known to both American and English whale-ships, and as well a thing placed
lake in which the wrecks of ships floated up to the surface); and that still
last coming to be linked with the White Whale in the minds of the
late a time as Cuvier's, were these or almost similar impressions effaced.
latent horror in thee!  but 'tis not me!  that horror's out of me!  and with
latitudes and longitudes, pursuing too such a calling as he does, the whaleman
league.  Ha!  Starbuck!  but the deed is done!  Yon ratifying sun now waits to
leap down the crags and drown the villages? --The blast!  the blast!  Up,
leg.  I now prophesy that I will dismember my dismemberer.  Now, then, be the
legendary times thrown its shadow before it; we find some book naturalists
legs!  Pip!  little Pip!  hurrah with your tambourine!  Pip ( Sulky and
light, it lights not me; all loveliness is anguish to me, since I can ne'er
lips while meeting.  a brave stave that --who calls?  mr.  starbuck?  Aye, aye,
lirra, skirra!  Oh-- We'll drink to-night with hearts as light, To love, as
literally justified by his vivid aspect, when seen gliding at high noon
little bruited ashore, were by no means unusual in the fishery; yet, in most
living experience of living men, the prodigies related in old times of the
long in working. 5th Nantucket Sailor What's that I saw--lightning?  Yes.
lords it over all below!  Oh!  I plainly see my miserable office, --to obey,
madman!  Insufferable sting, that sanity should ground arms on such a field!
malice.  Small reason was there to doubt, then, that ever since that almost
malignity, which whale, after doing great mischief to his assailants, had
man; he calls that fun: humph!  I save my sweat.  Old Manx Sailor I wonder
many of them adventurously pushing their quest along solitary latitudes, so
mat, but the soft soil has slid!  I saw thee woven in the wood, my mat!
match itself must needs be wasting!  What I've dared, I've willed; and what
matter, so the whale fishery surpasses every other sort of maritime life, in
maty; it's too springy to my taste.  I'm used to ice-floors.  I'm sorry to
meet the eye of their leader, ere he rushes on at their head in the trail of
might readily have prophesied it --for when I clapped my eye upon his skull I
mighty birth.  No wonder, then, that ever gathering volume from the mere
miles, and passed a thousand shores, you would not come to any chiselled
minds of his more desperate hunters were impelled, when amid the chips of
modes whereby, after sounding to a great depth, he transports himself with
more be seen.  But even stripped of these supernatural surmisings, there was
more wonderful story of the Arethusa fountain near Syracuse (whose waters
most brain-battering fight!  Dry heat upon my brow?  Oh!  time was, when as the
mostly, the disastrous encounter between Ahab and the whale had hitherto been
mounts up!  she wearies with her endless hill.  Is, then, the crown too heavy
murderous monster against whom I and all the others had taken our oaths of
nameless, interior volition, he would fain have shocked into them the same
naturally grow out of the very body of all surprising terrible events, --as the
never fail!  While the bold harpooneer is striking the whale!  Mate's Voice
night-women, that beat head-winds round corners.  O Christ!  to think of the
of harpoons darted in the Greenland seas.  Nor is it to be gainsaid, that in
of inflamed, distracted fury the
of mouth for that --the hogshead mouth.  So, so, ( thrusts his head down the
of spears should be planted in his flanks, he would still swim away unharmed;
of us.  Hoe corn when you may, I say.  All legs go to harvest soon.  Ah!  here
oftentimes hard to induce long practised Right whalemen to embark in the
old Mogul has fixed him, too.  I twigged it, knew it; had had the gift,
old grudge makes me touchy. ( Advancing.) Aye, harpooneer, thy race is the
on such or such a meridian, a Sperm Whale of uncommon magnitude and
one and the same instant of time.  Nor, credulous as such minds must have been,
one officer to the other, he brimmed the harpoon sockets with the fiery waters
or devouring amputations --but fatal to the last degree of fatality; those
order ye; ye will it.  Cut your seizings and draw the poles, ye harpooneers!
other and more vital practical influences at work.  Not even at the present
other leviathans might be hopefully pursued, yet to chase and point lance at
over him, he cries; --aye, he would be a democrat to all above; look, how he
pale waters, paler cheeks, where'er I sail.  The envious billows sidelong
perhaps --either from professional inexperience, or incompetency, or timidity,
perhaps aught else.  For, when swimming before his exulting pursuers, with
perhaps expired from out me.  Perchance, too, it would have dropped ye dead.
perils of this new and daring warfare; such men protesting that although
phantom futures!  Stand by me, hold me, bind me, O ye blessed influences!
plumbs the blue.  The diver sun --slow dived from noon, --goes down; my soul
popularly regarded.  And as for those who, previously hearing of the White
primitively pursued in the North; seated on their hatches, these men will
probability.  For as the secrets of the currents in the seas have never yet
problem to man, was never a problem to the whale.  So that here, in the real
prophet and the fulfiller one.  That's more than ye, ye great gods, ever
quarried out of it!  Spanish Sailor ( Aside.) He wants to bully, ah! --the
quenchless feud seemed mine.  With greedy ears I learned the history of that
reality for them to cling to.  And as the sea surpasses the land in this
reaped away ahab's leg, as a mower a blade of grass in the field.  No turbaned
rebelling; and worse yet, to hate with touch of pity!  For in his eyes I read
remarkable hue, nor yet his deformed lower jaw, that so much invested the
repeated disastrous repulses, all accumulating and piling their terrors upon
right into it!  English Sailor Blood!  but that old man's a grand old cove!
rolls swashing 'gainst the side!  Stand by for reefing, hearties!  the winds
rumors which sometimes circulate there.  For not only are whalemen as a body
run down; my heart the all-controlling weight, I have no key to lift again.
saw it.  Well, Stubb, wise Stubb --that's my title --well, Stubb, what of it,
say, that the whale in question must have been no other than moby Dick.  Yet
seaman.  The crew alone now drink.  Round with it, round!  Short draughts
seizing the line-knife from his broken prow, had dashed at the whale, as an
separate voyage; the irregularity of the times of sailing from home; all
shifted to any other soil, and here there's none but the crew's cursed clay.
shirr!  Here have I heard all their chat just now, and the white whale
shivered.  Once more, and finally, the replenished pewter went the rounds
sir -- ( Aside) he's my superior, he has his too, if I'm not mistaken. -- Aye,
sit upon it.  Drink, ye harpooneers!  drink and swear, ye men that man the
sky?  Hear I the roaring streams from Pirohitee's peak of spears, when they
small gold-fish has its glassy globe.  His heaven-insulting purpose, God may
small indeed.  For, owing to the large number of whale-cruisers; the
smitten tree gives birth to its fungi; but, in maritime life, far more than
snow's caps turn to jig it now.  They'll shake their tassels soon.  Now would
so?  Because a laugh's the wisest, easiest answer to all that's queer; and
some of these instances it has been declared that the interval of time between
somewhere by the sharkish sea.  The white whale is their demigorgon.  Hark!
spangled with golden gleamings.  Nor was it his unwonted magnitude, nor his
spine, and meet it! ( Leaps to his feet.) Portuguese Sailor How the sea
spiritual exasperations.  The White Whale swam before him as the monomaniac
splinters, or drive them back in consternation to their ship.  Already several
split jibs!  tear yourselves!  Tashtego ( Quietly smoking.) That's a white
squall!  the squall!  jump, my jollies! ( They scatter.) Pip ( shrinking
squall, something as they burst a waterspout with a pistol --fire your ship
stand before me; and I their match.  Oh, hard!  that to fire others, the
stand there with your irons; and ye, stout mariners, ring me in, that I may
stem him.  And as if the now tested reality of his might had in former
still further in their superstitions; declaring Moby Dick not only ubiquitous,
storm-lashed guns, on which the sea-salt cakes! 4th Nantucket Sailor He has
strike the imagination with unwonted power.  For, it was not so much his
stronger I shouted, and more did I hammer and clinch my oath, because of the
such an apparition as the Sperm Whale was not for mortal man.  That to attempt
such ripe, bursting grapes.  Sicilian Sailor ( Reclining.) Tell me not of
such vast swiftness to the most widely distant points.  It is a thing well
suddenly and nervously twitched them; meanwhile, glancing intently from
sunlight, that smiled on, as if at a birth or a bridal.  His three boats stove
sunrise nobly spurred me, so the sunset soothed.  No more.  This lovely
superstitiously inclined, was the unearthly conceit that Moby Dick was
sweet cardinals!  your own condescension, that shall bend ye to it.  I do not
swell to whelm my track; let them; but first I pass.  Yonder, by the
tales of
taste, observe ye, else come satiety.  Eh, Pagan? ( Nudging.) Tahitan
terrors, and often in the precipitancy of their flight dash themselves
that I wear?  this Iron Crown of Lombardy.  Yet is it bright with many a gem;
that dazzlingly confounds. 'Tis iron --that I know--not gold. 'Tis split, too
that every dismembering or death that he caused, was not wholly regarded as
that several vessels reported to have encountered, at such or such a time, or
that suddenly sweeping his sickle-shaped lower jaw beneath him, Moby Dick had
the Sperm Whale fishery at large, than to the individual cause.  In that way,
the bison; but, alas!  only to fall into the hidden snare of the Indian.
the fathom-deep life of the whale.  That captain was Ahab.  And then it was,
the gay, embattled, bantering bow, but only to drag dark Ahab after it, where
the goblet end?  Turn up the socket!  So, so; now, ye cup-bearers, advance.
the great Pope washes the feet of beggars, using his tiara for ewer?  Oh, my
the group; he stood for an instant searchingly eyeing every man of his crew.
the halyards!  in top-gallant sails!  Stand by to reef topsails!  All The
the infernal orgies!  that revelry is forward!  mark the unfaltering silence
the least; but my one cogged circle fits into all their various wheels, and
the number who as yet had actually and knowingly given battle to him, was
the resurrection; they must kiss their last, and come to judgment.  That's
the soft feeling of the human in me, yet will I try to fight ye, ye grim,
the solid metal; aye, steel skull, mine; the sort that needs no helmet in the
the spread through the whole world-wide whaling-fleet of the special
the two assaults could not have exceeded very many days.  Hence, by inference,
the way -- that's it; thy throat ain't spoiled with eating Amsterdam butter.
the wonderfulness and fearfulness of the
them, till they are left living on with half a heart and half a lung.  That
them.  Alone, in such remotest waters, that though you sailed a thousand
then, God, mad'st thou the ring?  Mate's Voice from the Quarter Deck Hands by
these assaults --not restricted to sprained wrists and ancles, broken limbs,
these fabulous narrations are almost fully equalled by the realities of the
these, with other circumstances, direct and indirect, long obstructed
these; yet in their full terribleness, even to the bloodthirsty item of
they not only eye its greatest marvels, but, hand to jaw, give battle to
they revolve.  Or, if you will, like so many ant-hills of powder, they all
thine, mannikin!  White skin, white liver!  Spanish Sailor ( meeting him)
thinking over it ever since, and that ha, ha's the final consequence.  Why
this capstan; and ye mates, flank me with your lances; and ye harpooneers,
this in our old Mogul's wine; it's quite as deadening to some as
three cup-bearers to my three pagan kinsmen there --yon three most honorable
three level, radiating lances at their crossed centre; while so doing,
through a dark blue sea, leaving a milky-way wake of creamy foam, all
throw cold water on the subject; but excuse me.  Maltese Sailor Me too;
tide flow wide.  The hated whale has the round watery world to swim in, as the
to Moby Dick, the earlier days of the Sperm Whale fishery, when it was
to ascribe the peculiar terror he bred, more, as it were, to the perils of
to hunt him!  Oh, thou big white God aloft there somewhere in yon darkness,
to the iron way!
to ye; come and see if ye can swerve me.  Swerve me?  ye cannot swerve me,
torrents' beds, unerringly I rush!  Naught's an obstacle, naught's an angle
transit over the widest watery spaces, the outblown rumors of the White Whale
true histories of these deadly encounters.  For not only do fabulous rumors
ubiquitous; that he had actually been encountered in opposite latitudes at
unaccompanied, secluded White Whale had haunted those uncivilized seas mostly
uncommon bulk that so much distinguished him from other sperm whales, but, as
undeniable dark side of mankind --devilish dark at that.  No offence.  Daggoo
unensanguined billows hundreds of leagues away, his unsullied jet would once
unexempt from that ignorance and superstitiousness hereditary to all sailors;
unfrequent instances of great ferocity, cunning, and malice in the monster
untutored things are forced to feed --Oh, life! 'tis now that I do feel the
up!  Dutch Sailor Grand snoozing to-night, maty; fat night for that.  I mark
upon authoritative record years ago by Scoresby, that some whales have been
viewing of those gallant whales That blew at every strand.  Oh, your tubs in
violence and revenge.  For some time past, though at intervals only, the
vocation, revived in the minds of the hunters.  So that overawed by the rumors
wag thy ears.  Jig it, men, I say; merry's the word; hurrah!  Damn me, won't
wake, and further on, hunted by its wolfish gurglings.  The long howl thrills
was elsewhere thrown out --a peculiar snow-white wrinkled forehead, and a
was this conceit altogether without some faint show of superstitious
wedge aside.  I would up heart, were it not like lead.  But my whole clock's
well done; almost drained.  That way it went, this way it comes.  Hand it me
were believed to have come from the Holy Land by an underground passage);
were simultaneously quaffed down with a hiss.  Starbuck paled, and turned, and
were, who even in the face of these things were ready to give chase to Moby
were.  I laugh and hoot at ye, ye cricket-players, ye pugilists, ye deaf
whale with natural terror, as that unexampled, intelligent malignity which,
whaleman.  Forced into familiarity, then, with such prodigies as these; and
whalemen, especially among those whaling nations not sailing under the
where's your girls?  Who but a fool would take his left hand by his right,
whereby, even in the limitless, uncharted seas, he revealed his identity, at
whether those jolly lads bethink them of what they are dancing over.  I'll
white curds of the whale's direful wrath into the serene, exasperating
who by those rumors, at least, had heard of the White Whale, few of those
whose sole knowledge of the leviathan is restricted to the ignoble monster
wild rumors of all sorts fail to exaggerate, and still the more horrify the
with their lances, and the rest of the ship's company formed a circle round
without superstitious accompaniments, were sufficiently hardy not to flee
world's a ball, as you scholars have it; and so 'tis right to make one
yard!  It's worse than being in the whirled woods, the last day of the year;
yonder, boys, there's another in the sky --lurid-like, ye see, all else pitch
you dance?  Form, now, Indian-file, and gallop into the double-shuffle?
you will yet see that-- Ha!  boy, come back?  bad pennies come not sooner.
your boats, my boys, And by your braces stand, And we'll have one of those
your cotton bags!  I have no long gun to reach ye.  Come, Ahab's compliments
your white squalls, they.  White squalls?  white whale, shirr!
