





























     A day or two passed, and there was great
     All about it, eh --sure you do? --all?  Pretty sure.  With finger pointed
     As we were walking down the end of the wharf
     Elijah.  Elijah!  thought I, and we walked away, both commenting, after
     Every once and a while Peleg came hobbling out of his whalebone den, roaring
     First Congregational Church, cried Bildad, what!  that worships in Deacon
     I don't know anything about Deacon Deuteronomy or his meeeting, said I,
     I endeavored to prevail upon Queequeg to take a chair; but in vain.  There
     It was nearly six o'clock, but only grey
     Life was what Captain Ahab and I was thinking of; and how to save all hands
     Look ye; when captain Ahab is all right, then this left arm of mine will be
     My friend, said I, what all this gibberish of yours is about, I don't
     Nantucket.  So down we went into the cabin, and to my great joy Queequeg
     Peleg!  Peleg!  said Bildad, lifting his eyes and hands, thou thyself, as
     Quick, I say, you Bildad, and get the ship's papers.  We must have Hedgehog
     See if you can find 'em now, will ye?  Find who?  Morning to ye!  morning
     Shipmates, have ye shipped in that ship?
     Stop!  cried the stranger.  Ye said true --ye hav'n't seen Old Thunder yet,
     That's true, that's true --yes, both true enough.  But you must jump when he
     Very dim, very dim, said Elijah.  Morning to ye.  Once more we quitted him;
     Yes, I thought I did see four or five men; but it was too dim to be sure.
     You mean the ship Pequod, I suppose, said I, trying to gain a little more
     all I know is, that Queequeg here is a born member of the First
     and on that side of it retraced our steps.  But Elijah passed on, without
     deck, where we followed him.  There he stood, very quietly overlooking some
     in that we all join hands.  Splice, thou mean'st splice hands, cried
     one way nor the other way, but sat like a carved image with scarce a sign of
     resisted.  Running down stairs, I quickly stated my suspicions to the first
     which way to it?  Run for God's sake, and fetch something to pry open the
'em!  Morning to ye, shipmates, morning; the ineffable heavens bless ye; I'm
--and with that she seized my arm.  What's the matter with you?  What's the
--but never mind, never mind --it's all one, all in the family too; --sharp
--good luck to 'em; and they are all the better off for it.  A soul's a sort
--how to rig jury-masts -- how to get into the nearest port; that was what I
--might as well kill both birds at once.  Kill?  The Lord be merciful to his
.. < chapter xix 2  THE PROPHET >
.. < chapter xviii 2  HIS MARK >
.. < chapter xx 15  ALL ASTIR >
.. < chapter xxi 2  GOING ABOARD >
.. <p 83 >
.. <p 84 >
.. <p 85 >
.. <p 86 >
.. <p 87 >
.. <p 88 >
.. <p 89 >
.. <p 90 >
.. <p 91 >
.. <p 92 >
.. <p 93 >
.. <p 94 >
.. <p 94 >
.. <p 95 >
.. <p 96 >
.. <p 97 >
.. <p 98 >
.. <p 99 >
Ahab.  But nothing about that thing that happened to him off Cape Horn, long
Bell, and the hideous dragon; turn from the wrath to come; mind thine eye,
Bildad, he carried about with him a long list of the articles needed, and at
But when a man suspects any wrong, it sometimes happens that if he be
Charity --Aunt Charity, as everybody called her.  And like a sister of
Congregational Church.  He is a deacon himself, Queequeg is.  Young man,
Deuteronomy --why Father Mapple himself couldn't beat it, and he's reckoned
Deuteronomy Coleman's meeting-house?  and so saying, taking out his
Elijah, that I consider you a little impertinent?  No, no, no; I wasn't
First Congregation of this whole worshipping world; we all belong to that;
God's sake, run for the doctor, some one, while I pry it open!  Look here,
Going forward to the forecastle, we found the slide of the scuttle open.
He put his hand upon the sleeper's rear, as though feeling if it was soft
Hussey, said I, he's alive at all events; so leave us, if you please, and
I could not get into the faintest doze.  I had blown out the candle; and the
I left the ship the day previous; and the prediction of the squaw Tistig;
I myself, hast seen many a perilous time; thou knowest, Peleg, what it is to
I say; oh!  goodness gracious!  steer clear of the fiery pit!  Something of
I then asked Queequeg whether he himself was ever troubled with dyspepsia;
I went up stairs to go to bed, feeling quite sure by this time Queequeg must
I will see to this strange affair myself.  Closing the door upon the landlady,
I've heard that he's a good whale-hunter, and a good captain to his crew.
I.  He's got enough, though, to make up for all deficiencies of that sort in
Judgment then?  Hear him, hear him now, cried Peleg, marching across the
Lents, Ramadans, and prolonged ham-squattings in cold, cheerless rooms were
Mrs. Hussey soon appeared, with a mustard-pot in one hand and a vinegar-cruet
Oceans, and would prefer not to be detained.  Ye be, be ye?  Coming back
Peleg and Bildad, could attend to everything necessary to fit the vessel for
Peleg's obstinate mistake touching his appellative, it stood something like
Peleg, drawing nearer.  Young man, you'd better ship for a missionary,
Queequeg and I had just left the Pequod, and were sauntering away from the
Queequeg, as if he had been screwed down to the floor.  But as soon as the
Queequeg, don't sit there, said I. Oh!  perry dood seat, said Queequeg, my
Queequeg, with the most unaccountable glances.  Elijah, said I, you will
Queequeg.  But not a word did he reply.  Despairing of him, therefore, I
Scriptural and domestic phrases.  Avast there, avast there, Bildad, avast now
Seeing a light, we went down, and found only an old rigger there, wrapped in a
Somehow, the sight of him struck me so, that I said nothing to Queequeg of
Son of darkness, he added, turning to Queequeg, art thou at present in
Think of Death and the Judgment then?  No!  no time to think about Death then.
Thou beliest thine own heart, Peleg.  Tell me, when this same Pequod here had
When all preliminaries were over and Peleg had got everything ready for
Without saying a word, Queequeg, in his wild sort of way, jumped upon the
Ye hav'n't seen him yet, have ye?  No, we hav'n't.  He's sick they say, but
You see him?  well, spose him one whale eye, well, den!  and taking sharp
a member?  he then said, turning to me; not very long, I rather guess,
a plum-pudding voyage, as they called it (that is, a short whaling-voyage in
a sailor who had visited that very island, and he told me that it was the
a schooner or brig, confined to the north of the line, in the Atlantic Ocean
a ship in which her beloved brother Bildad was concerned, and in which she
a very early start.
about Captain Ahab, and how he was, and when he was going to come on board
about his losing his leg last voyage, according to the prophecy.  Didn't ye
about religion made much impression upon Queequeg.  Because, in the first
about that, eh?  Nothing about the silver calabash he spat into?  And nothing
above a hundred yards, when chancing to turn a corner, and looking back as I
absolute dictator of it, so soon as the ship sailed out upon the open sea.
active life.  Queequeg, said I, going up to him, Queequeg, what's the
activity aboard the pequod.  not only were the old sails being mended, but
afore breakfast?  He's cracked, Queequeg, said I, come on.  Holloa!
ago, when he lay like dead for three days and nights; nothing about that
aim at it, he darted the iron right over old Bildad's broad brim, clean across
all kinds of vague wonderments and half-apprehensions, and all connected with
all right; not before.  What do you know about him?  What did they tell
all.  Any how, it's all fixed and arranged a'ready; and some sailors or
almost, but a spare captain and duplicate ship.  At the period of our arrival
already involved in the matter, he insensibly strives to cover up his
altogether cool and self-collected; right in the middle of the room;
an undigested apple-dumpling; and since then perpetuated through the
and again marking the sleeper, jocularly hinted to Queequeg that perhaps we
and better, and was expected aboard every day; meantime, the two Captains,
and cocoanuts; and with some parsley in their mouths, were sent round with
and dressed; and Queequeg, taking a prodigiously hearty breakfast of chowders
and every mother's son and soul of us belong; the great and everlasting
and eye levelled at the Pequod, the beggar-like stranger stood a moment, as if
and he handles it about right.  I say, Quohog, or whatever your name is, did
and selecting one entitled The Latter Day Coming; or No Time to Lose, placed
and the judgment then?  What?  With all three masts making such an everlasting
and the voyage we had bound ourselves to sail; and a hundred other shadowy
and then concluded by roaring back into his wigwam.  During these days of
another time with a bunch of quills for the chief mate's desk, where he kept
apoplexy! --and with these cries, she ran towards the kitchen, I following.
at his frantic impudence.  At last, stepping on board the Pequod, we found
at the Island, the heaviest storage of the Pequod had been almost completed;
at the feet.  We kept the pipe passing over the sleeper, from one to the
at the men down the hatchways, roaring up to the riggers at the mast-head,
aware of that, said elijah, slowly and wonderingly looking from me to
be found wanting in the Pequod, after once fairly getting to sea.  At one time
because that other person don't believe it also.  But when a man's religion
becomes really frantic; when it is a positive torment to him; and, in fine,
before hinted, I have no objection to any person's religion, be it what it
before hinted, for some time there was a continual fetching and carrying on
before long!  laughed the stranger, with a solemnly derisive sort of laugh.
benevolent countenance
board of divers odds and ends of things, both large and small.  Chief among
bulwarks, from thence into the bows of one of the whale-boats hanging to the
but once more he came softly after us; and touching my shoulder again, said,
by that, Captain Peleg?  said I, now jumping on the bulwarks, and leaving my
cabin, and thrusting his hands far down into his pockets, -- hear him, all of
castors, and scolding her little black boy meantime.  Wood-house!  cried I,
cave in; hence the spirit caves in; and all thoughts born of a fast must
certainly have brought his Ramadan to a termination.  But no; there he was
charity did this charitable Aunt Charity bustle about hither and thither,
close vicinity of the flying harpoon, had retreated towards the cabin gangway.
close.  Captain Peleg seldom or never went ashore, but sat in his wigwam
comfort, and consolation to all on board
communion with any christian church?  Why, said I, he's a member of the
compassion, as though he thought it a great pity that such a sensible young
comprising her beef, bread, water, fuel, and iron hoops and staves.  But, as
comrade standing on the wharf.  I mean, he replied, he must show his
considered from his own point of view; and, in the second place, he did not
constrained; especially, as in all probability he had been sitting so for
countenance.  What's the matter with you, young man?  Get the axe!  For
country way; won't hurt him face.  Face!  said I, call that his face?  very
cried Bildad, is this Philistine a regular member of Deacon Deuteronomy's
cried Peleg.  Pious harpooneers never make good voyagers --it takes the shark
cried stationary Elijah, hailing us when we had removed a few paces.  Never
custom, when a great battle had been gained there, to barbecue all the slain
dad whale dead.  Quick, Bildad, said Peleg, his partner, who, aghast at the
damaged in the head.  But if you are speaking of Captain Ahab, of that ship
day, with a long oil-ladle in one hand, and a still longer whaling lance in
deadly skrimmage with the Spaniard afore the altar in Santa? -- heard nothing
determined to go to bed and to sleep; and no doubt, before a great while, he
did so, who should be seen but Elijah following us, though at a distance.
did; how could ye?  Who knows it?  Not all Nantucket, I guess.  But
do; for I knew the inferences without his further hinting them.  I had seen
don't believe it's very punctual then.  I went down to supper.  After sitting a
door --the axe! --the axe!  he's had a stroke; depend upon it! --and so saying I
down our traps, resolving, however, to sleep ashore till the last.  But it
downwards and inclosed in his folded arms.  The profoundest slumber slept
duty by thee; I am part owner of this ship, and feel concerned for the souls
each other's fashion, upon this ragged old sailor; and agreed that he was
earnestness of his manner.  Captain Ahab.  What!  the captain of our ship,
eaten that very evening.  No more, Queequeg, said I, shuddering; that will
enough; and then, without more ado, sat quietly down there.  Gracious!
equipped.  Every one knows what a multitude of things --beds, sauce-pans,
every fresh arrival, down went his mark opposite that article upon the paper.
everything in profound quiet, not a soul moving.  The cabin entrance was
expressing the idea very plainly, so that he could take it in.  He said no;
father the king, on the gaining of a great battle wherein fifty of the enemy
fear, I beseech thee, remain not for aye a Belial bondsman.  Spurn the idol
felt like pushing him over, so as to change his position, for it was almost
finally, he no doubt thought he knew a good deal more about the true religion
first Congregational Church.  Here be it said, that many tattooed savages
first glimpse of sun entered the window, up he got, with stiff and grating
fit; and the silver calabash; and what Captain Peleg had said of him, when
for him --the likes of ye.  Morning to ye, shipmates, morning!  Oh, when ye get
frightened about his plaguy soul, that he shrinked and sheered away from
from behind Peleg's, out of the wigwam.  He must show that he's converted.
from him, with the fixed bayonet of his pointed finger darted full at the
frost this morning, ain't it?  Good bye to ye.  Shan't see ye again very
gave her to understand the whole case.  Unconsciously clapping the
get up and have some supper.  You'll starve; you'll kill yourself,
ghost!  What's that noise there?  You, young man, avast there!  And running
gives an order.  Step and growl; growl and go --that's the word with Captain
grocers, costermongers, doctors, bakers, and bankers.  And though this also
had been killed by about two o'clock in the afternoon, and all cooked and
had best sit up with the body; telling him to establish himself accordingly.
had nothing but his ordinary round jacket on.  For some time, do all I would,
half-revealing, shrouded sort of talk, now begat in me
hand free; look here; are you talking about prying open any of my doors?
hard pushed, I replied.  I mean, sir, the same ancient Catholic Church to
harpoon was missing.  He's killed himself, she cried.  It's unfort'nate
have the fear of death; how, then, can'st thou prate in this ungodly guise.
have thought myself to have been optically deceived in that matter, were it
have ye?  Who's Old Thunder?  said I, again riveted with the insane
haven't seen it since I put it there.  Running to a little closet under the
he being in other things such an extremely sensible and sagacious savage, it
he sat; and all he could do --for all my polite arts and blandishments --he
he'll twitch you off soon.  I wonder he don't wake.  Queequeg removed himself
hear a word about them matters and something more, eh?  No, I don't think ye
her three masts overboard in that typhoon on Japan, that same voyage when
hereditary dyspepsias nurtured by Ramadans.
herself owned a score or two of well-saved dollars.  But it was startling to
high time to take that individual aside and argue the point with him.  And
his Ramadan, we sallied out to board the Pequod, sauntering along, and
his being behind, but passed on with my comrade, anxious to see whether the
his face, and left it like the complicated ribbed bed of a torrent, when the
his forehead again against mine; and said his Ramadan was over.  Now, as I
his leg.
his log; a third time with a roll of flannel for the small of some one's
his ship.  To these questions they would answer, that he was getting better
holds true of merchant vessels, yet not by any means to the same extent as
hows'ever, mayhap, ye've heard tell about the leg, and how he lost it; aye,
huge pockets of his broad-skirted drab coat, took out a bundle of tracts,
imperfect misty dawn, when we drew nigh the wharf.  There are some sailors
important to tell us, out with it; but if you are only trying to bamboozle
impossibility of replacing them at the remote harbors usually frequented, it
in a troubled reverie; then starting a little, turned and said: -- Ye've
in faded jacket and patched trowsers; a rag of a black handkerchief
in for safe keeping.  La!  La, ma'am! --Mistress!  murder!  Mrs. Hussey!
in great wooden trenchers, and garnished round like a pilau, with breadfruit
in short, everything betokened that the ship's preparations were hurrying to a
in the other, having just broken away from the occupation of attending to the
in the yard or garden of the victor; and then, one by one, they were placed
indispensable to the business of housekeeping.  Just so with whaling, which
instead of a fore-mast hand; I never heard a better sermon.  Deacon
interposed the mustard-pot and vinegar-cruet, and the entire castor of her
intolerable, it seemed so painfully and unnaturally
investing his neck.  A confluent small-pox had in all directions flowed over
is getting better, and will be all right again before long.  All right again
is no telling how many things to be thought of, before the Pequod was fully
it in queequeg's hands, and then grasping them and the book with both his,
it would have washed some of that devil's blue off his face.  Do tell, now,
jacket, and threw it over him, as it promised to be a very cold night; and he
joints, but with a cheerful look; limped towards me where I lay; pressed
just so I now did with Queequeg.  Queequeg, said I, get into bed now, and
just where I had left him; he had not stirred an inch.  I began to grow
keeping a sharp look-out upon the hands: Bildad did all the purchasing and
kindhearted, who seemed resolved that, if she could help it, nothing should
knives and forks, shovels and tongs, napkins, nut-crackers, and what not, are
know, and I don't much care; for it seems to me that you must be a little
landing of the stairs, she glanced in, and returning, told me that Queequeg's
landlady.  But all we said, not a word could we drag out of him; I almost
last for ever, thank God, and his Ramadan only comes once a year; and I
let's leave this crazy man.  But stop, tell me your name, will you?
lie and listen to me.  I then went on, beginning with the rise and progress
like men going towards that ship a while ago?  Struck by this plain
little, in the uncertain twilight, strangely peering from Queequeg to me.  It
locked within; the hatches were all on, and lumbered with coils of rigging.
long time listening to the long stories of some sailors who had just come from
looked earnestly into his eyes, and said, Son of darkness, I must do my
makes this earth of ours an uncomfortable inn to lodge in; then I think it
man should be so hopelessly lost to evangelical pagan piety.  At last we rose
mark?  But at this question, Queequeg, who had twice or thrice before taken
massive forefinger at the vessel in question.  He was but shabbily apparelled
matter with you, shipmate?  In as calm, but rapid a manner as possible, I
matter with you?  He hain't been a sittin' so all day, has he?  said the
matter-of-fact question, I answered, saying,
may, so long as that person does not kill or insult any other person,
me a sign, with --"no suicides permitted here, and no smoking in the parlor;"
me to understand that, in his land, owing to the absence of settees and sofas
mean they know he's only one leg; and that a parmacetti took the other off.
meeting?  I never saw him going there, and I pass it every Lord's day.
mere thought of Queequeg--
might have been wasted.
mind him, said I, Queequeg, come on.  But he stole up to us again, and
more than one third understand me, couch my ideas simply as I would; and,
more till break of day; when, looking over the bedside, there squatted
mother! --it will be the ruin of my house.  Has the poor lad a sister?  Where's
must be remembered, that of all ships, whaling vessels are the most exposed
must be the matter.  I went to make the bed after breakfast, and the door
native island.  It must be so; yes, it's part of his creed, I suppose; 
necessarily be half-starved.  This is the reason why most dyspeptic
necessitates a three-years' housekeeping upon the wide ocean, far from all
new sails were coming on board, and bolts of canvas, and coils of rigging;
next day the ship would certainly sail.  So next morning, Queequeg and I took
night in the same room with a wide awake pagan on his hams in this dreary,
noise the door flew open, and the knob slamming against the wall, sent the
not for Elijah's otherwise inexplicable question.  But I beat the thing down;
not four feet off --sitting there in that uneasy position, stark alone in
nothing but a humbug, trying to be a bugbear.  But we had not gone perhaps
nothing, and tried to think nothing.  At last it was given out that some time
notice my presence in any the slightest way.  I wonder, thought I, if this can
numerous articles peculiar to the prosecution of the fishery, and the
object.  Yes, said I, we have just signed the articles.  Anything down
oblige my friend and me by withdrawing.  We are going to the Indian and Pacific
of a fifth wheel to a wagon.  What are you jabbering about, shipmate?  said
of all its crew; if thou still clingest to thy Pagan ways, which I sadly
of all sorts, so that the landlady should not make much profit by reason of
of all sorts, the king, chiefs, and great people generally, were in the
of me imagine.  This circumstance, coupled with his ambiguous, half-hinting,
of the primitive religions, and coming down to the various religions of the
of wood on his head.  For heaven's sake, Queequeg, get up and shake yourself;
old lady of a most determined and indefatigable spirit, but withal very
only some of us cherish some queer crotchets noways touching the grand belief;
only upon one memorable occasion.  It was after a great feast given by his
only); after listening to these plum-puddingers till nearly eleven o'clock,
other chaps, abruptly said the stranger, placing a nervous emphasis upon the
other must go with him, I suppose; as well these as any other men, God pity
other.  Meanwhile, upon questioning him in his broken fashion, Queequeg gave
out of 'em; no harpooneer is worth a straw who aint pretty sharkish.  There
over the bulwarks, took a good long look at Queequeg.  How long hath he been
pained me, very badly pained me, to see him now so deplorably foolish about
papers.  Yea, said Captain Bildad in his hollow voice, sticking his head
part in similar ceremonies, looked no ways abashed; but taking the offered
pen, copied upon the paper, in the proper place, an exact counterpart of a
person i met --the chambermaid.  la!  la!  she cried, i thought something
picking our teeth with halibut bones.
place, he somehow seemed dull of hearing on that important subject, unless
plaster to the ceiling; and there, good heavens!  there sat Queequeg,
possibly be a part of his Ramadan; do they fast on their hams that way in his
preparation, Queequeg and I often visited the craft, and as often I asked
present time, during which time I labored to show Queequeg that all these
providing at the stores; and the men employed in the hold and on the rigging
putting them on very carefully, came out of the wigwam, and leaning stiffly
queer round figure which was tattooed upon his arm; so that through Captain
ready to turn her hand and heart to anything that promised to yield safety,
really dogging us or not, and with that intent crossed the way with Queequeg,
religionists cherish such melancholy notions about their hereafters.  In one
rheumatic back.  Never did any woman better deserve her name, which was
running ahead there, if I see right, said I to Queequeg, it can't be
rushing waters have been dried up.  Have ye shipped in her?  he repeated.
said Bildad sternly, thou art skylarking with me --explain thyself, thou
said I, looking dubiously at the sleeper.  But it seemed that, when on the
said Queequeg, quietly hauling in the line, spos-ee him whale-e eye; why,
said Queequeg, shaking himself, go 'way!  Aint going aboard, then?  Yes,
said quickly.  no matter though, i know many chaps that hav'n't got any,
said the landlady, quickly putting down the vinegar-cruet, so as to have one
said, drawing back his whole arm, and then rapidly shoving it straight out
sail for several days.  But no wonder; there was a good deal to be done, and
sail-makers who were mending a top-sail in the waist.  Now and then he
sailing in Nantucket ships at last come to be converted into the churches.
see this excellent hearted Quakeress coming on board, as she did the last
seemed to me, I pronounced him in my heart, a humbug.
seeming to notice us.  This relieved me; and once more, and finally as it
seems they always give very long notice in these cases, and the ship did not
shadows; she's off by sunrise, I guess; come on!  Avast!  cried a voice,
she turned it in the lock; but, alas!  Queequeg's supplemental bolt remained
she would come on board with a jar of pickles for the steward's pantry;
shipped, have ye?  Names down on the papers?  Well, well, what's signed, is
short, to the obvious laws of Hygiene and common sense.  I told him, too, that
shoulders, and then insinuating himself between us, stood stooping forward a
side-pocket, here's a key that'll fit, I guess; let's see.  And with that,
side; and then bracing his left knee, and poising his harpoon, cried out in
signed; and what's to be, will be; and then again, perhaps it wont be, after
signing the articles, word was given at all the inns where the ship's company
signing, he turned to me and said, I guess Quohog there don't know how to
since.  But I thought, may be, you had both gone off and locked your baggage
so long a voyage, without once laying my eyes on the man who was to be the
some such way as this: -- Cap'ain, you see him small drop tar on water dere?
something.  Come aboard, come aboard; never mind about the papers.  I say,
somewhere; he's talking about something and somebody we don't know.
soon, I guess; unless it's before the Grand Jury.  And with these cracked
sorry I stopped ye.  Look here, friend, said I, if you have anything
spare boats, spare spars, and spare lines and harpoons, and spare everythings,
spectacles, he rubbed them with his great yellow bandana handkerchief, and
spoiling our harpooneer,
squatting on his hams, and holding Yojo on top of his head.  He looked neither
stark nonsense; bad for the health; useless for the soul; opposed, in
steadfastly eyeing Queequeg, and at last rising solemnly and fumbling in the
stiggs done over again --there goes another counterpane --god pity his poor
stooped to pick up a patch, or save an end of tarred twine, which otherwise
stranger would turn the same corner that we did.  He did; and then it seemed
sudden bodily rush dashed myself full against the mark.  With a prodigious
suddenly clapping his hand on my shoulder, said -- Did ye see anything looking
suspicions even from himself.  And much this way it was with me.  I said
tattered pea-jacket.  He was thrown at whole length upon two chests, his face
tell Quohog there --what's that you call him?  tell Quohog to step along.  By
than I did.  He looked at me with a sort of condescending concern and
that craft, unless they previously produced their papers.  What do you mean
that girl? --there, Betty, go to Snarles the Painter, and tell him to paint
the Pequod; and Captain Ahab; and the leg he had lost; and the Cape Horn
the Pequod?  Aye, among some of us old sailor chaps, he goes by that name.
the Vineyard; he joined the meeting, and never came to good.  He got so
the cold and dark; this made me really wretched.  Think of it; sleeping all
the entry a little, for a good start, when the landlady caught at me, again
the great anchor, what a harpoon he's got there!  looks like good stuff that;
the ninetieth lay, and that's more than ever was given a harpooneer yet out of
the other.  Nor was Bildad himself nor Captain Peleg at all backward.  As for
the salt sea yet lingered in old Bildad's language, heterogeneously mixed with
the ship's decks, and struck the glistening tar spot out of sight.  Now,
the victor's compliments to all his friends, just as though these presents
the voyage.  If I had been downright honest with myself, I would have seen
the world for a man to look as if he had a great secret in him.  Morning to
then; but how hard he breathes, he's heaving himself; get off, Queequeg,
there
there about your souls?  About what?  Oh, perhaps you hav'n't got any, he
there all day and half the night on his hams in a cold room, holding a piece
there's one about a mile from here.  But avast!  putting her hand in her
there, I mean Quohog, in one of our boats.  Look ye, Quohog, we'll give ye
there, tell 'em I've concluded not to make one of 'em.  Ah, my dear fellow,
there, the Pequod, then let me tell you, that I know all about the loss of
things.  I was resolved to satisfy myself whether this ragged Elijah was
this ridiculous Ramadan of his.  Besides, argued I, fasting makes the body
this: -- Quohog his mark.  Meanwhile Captain Bildad sat earnestly and
those who did this fetching and carrying was Captain Bildad's sister, a lean
thou went mate with Captain Ahab, did'st thou not think of Death and the
thundering against the side; and every sea breaking over us, fore and aft.
time for an uninterrupted look at him.  Aye, the Pequod --that ship there, he
to accidents of all kinds, and especially to the destruction and loss of the
to just beyond the head of the sleeper, and lighted his tomahawk pipe.  I sat
to me that he was dogging us, but with what intent I could not for the life
to one side of her nose, she ruminated for an instant; then exclaimed -- No!  I
to ye!  he rejoined, again moving off.  Oh!  I was going to warn ye against
towards the ship, Queequeg carrying his harpoon, Captain Peleg in his gruff
unaccountable Ramadan!  But somehow I dropped off at last, and knew nothing
unwithdrawn within.  Have to burst it open, said I, and was running down
up after me, she caught me as I was again trying to force open the door.  I
upon him.  Those sailors we saw, Queequeg, where can they have gone to?
upwards of eight or ten hours, going too without his regular meals.  Mrs.
us, you are mistaken in your game; that's all I have to say.  And it's said
very plainly in my heart that I did but half fancy being committed this way to
very things upon which the success of the voyage most depends.  Hence, the
very well, and I like to hear a chap talk up that way; you are just the man
vexed with him; it seemed so downright senseless and insane to be sitting
vinegar-cruet
voice loudly hailed us from his wigwam, saying he had not suspected my friend
vowing I should not break down her premises; but I tore from her, and with a
was Elijah.  Going aboard?  Hands off, will you, said I. Lookee here,
was a cannibal, and furthermore announcing that he let no cannibals on board
was locked; and not a mouse to be heard; and it's been just so silent ever
was no telling how soon the vessel might be sailing.  So Queequeg and I got
was soon enrolled among the same ship's company to which I myself belonged.
was thinking of.  Bildad said no more, but buttoning up his coat, stalked on
was unmethodically rushing up stairs again empty-handed, when Mrs. Hussey
was young Nat Swaine, once the bravest boat-header out of all Nantucket and
water, for the moment each occupied with his own thoughts, when the above
we are, said I, but what business is that of yours?  Do you know, Mr.
well, then, let him rest; he'll get up sooner or later, no doubt.  It can't
were so many Christmas turkeys.  After all, I do not think that my remarks
were stopping, that their chests must be on board before night, for there
were working till long after night-fall.  On the day following Queequeg's
whales, for fear of after-claps in case he got stove and went to Davy Jones.
wharf, Queequeg had not at all noticed what I now alluded to; hence I would
which you and I, and Captain Peleg there, and Queequeg here, and all of us,
whose owner at the same time coming close behind us, laid a hand upon both our
with whalemen.  For besides the great length of the whaling voyage, the
won't allow it; I won't have my premises spoiled.  Go for the locksmith,
word he.  Queequeg, said I, let's go; this fellow has broken loose from
word, Queequeg, said I, rather digressively; hell is an idea first born on
words he finally departed, leaving me, for the moment, in no small wonderment
words were put to us by a stranger, who, pausing before us, levelled his
would follow me.  But previous to turning in, I took my heavy bearskin
would not move a peg, nor say a single word, nor even look at me, nor
write, does he?  I say, Quohog, blast ye!  dost thou sign thy name or make thy
ye have heard of that, I dare say.  Oh yes, that every one knows a'most --I
ye, shipmates, morning.  Morning it is, said I. Come along, Queequeg,
ye.  Think of that!  When every moment we thought the ship would sink!  Death
you about him?  Say that!  They didn't tell much of anything about him; only
you are heavy, it's grinding the face of the poor.  Get off, Queequeg!  Look,
you can't fool us that way --you can't fool us.  It is the easiest thing in
you ever stand in the head of a whale-boat?  did you ever strike a fish?
young Hittite.  What church dost thee mean?  answer me.  Finding myself thus
young man.  No, said Peleg, and he hasn't been baptized right either, or
