





























     All dention, said Fleece, again stooping over upon his tongs in the
     Didn't say dat t'all, said Fleece, again in the sulks.  You said up there,
     Fellow-critters: I'se ordered here to say dat you must stop dat dam noise
     Go to bed berry soon, he mumbled, half-turning as he spoke.  Avast!  heave
     Haul in the chains!  Let the carcase go
     I have given no small attention to that
     It was a Saturday night, and such a
     Now, cook, said Stubb, resuming his supper at the capstan; Stand just where
     O man!  in all seasons a temperature of thine own.  But how easy and how
     Silence!  How old are you, cook? 'Bout ninety, dey say, he gloomily
     Talk to 'em gentlemanly.  Once more the sermon proceeded.  Your
     That mortal man should feed upon
     The old monks of Dunfermline were very fond of them.  They had a great
     They have such an eatable look that the most self-denying stranger can hardly
     Well then, cook; you see this whale-steak of yours was so very bad, that I
     Whale-balls for breakfast --don't forget.  Wish, by gor!  whale eat him,
     When in the Southern Fishery, a
     Who dat?  Den preach to him yourself, sullenly turning to go.  No, Cook;
     a broad, semicircular line is cut round the hole, the hook is inserted, and
     body, is at last locked fast round the smallest part of the tail, at the
     consideration before mentioned: i.  e.  that a man should eat a newly murdered
     fowls, whose beaks are like so many insulting poniards in the whale.  The
     it is all the time being hoisted higher and higher aloft till its upper end
     other end is secured to the ship.  By adroit management the wooden float is
     scarf, simultaneously cut by the spades of Starbuck and Stubb, the mates;
     strong individual vitality, and the rare virtue of thick walls, and the rare
     that they cast long gleams of light over the turbid sea, these
     the strongest point anywhere above a ship's deck.  The end of the hawser-like
     to rise on the other side of the mass, so that now having girdled the made
'em they are welcome to help themselves civilly, and in moderation, but they
'stead of him eat whale.  I'm bressed if he ain't more of shark dan Massa
-- take it, and taste it.  Faintly smacking his withered lips over it for a
.. < chapter lxix 2  THE FUNERAL >
.. < chapter lxv 12  THE WHALE AS A DISH >
.. < chapter lxvi 2  THE SHARK MASSACRE >
.. < chapter lxvii 23  CUTTING IN >
.. < chapter lxviii 29  THE BLANKET >
.. <p 290n. >
.. <p 293 >
.. <p 294 >
.. <p 295 >
.. <p 296 >
.. <p 297 >
.. <p 297 >
.. <p 298 >
.. <p 299 >
.. <p 300 >
.. <p 301 >
.. <p 301 >
.. <p 301n. >
.. <p 302 >
.. <p 303 >
.. <p 303 >
.. <p 304 >
.. <p 305 >
.. <p 306 >
.. <p 307 >
A little item may as well be related here.  The strongest and most reliable
And now suspended in stages over the side, Starbuck and Stubb, the mates,
But Fleece had hardly got three paces off, when he was recalled.  Cook, give
But don't you know the higher you climb, the colder it gets?  Main-top, eh?
But, perhaps you expect to get into heaven by crawling through the lubber's
Christianity; go on.  No use goin' on; de dam willains will keep a
Don't be tearin' de blubber out your neighbour's mout, I say.  Is not one
England rocks on the sea-coast, which Agassiz imagines to bear the marks of
Fleece, as they called him, came shuffling and limping along, assisting his
France, and commanded large prices there.  Also, that in Henry VIIIth's
Hold the steak in one hand, and show a live coal to it with the other; that
I'm coming to, cook.  You must go home and be born over again; you don't
In the case of a small Sperm Whale the brains are accounted a fine dish.  The
My original opinion remains unchanged; but it is only an opinion.  The
Nevertheless, many whalemen have a method of absorbing it into some other
Pacific, this plan will not answer at all; because such incalculable hosts
Peter's!  of creatures, how few vast as the whale!
Pole.  Like the great dome of St.  Peter's, and like the great whale, retain,
Sabbath as followed!  Ex officio professors of Sabbath breaking are all
Secretary of the Society for the Suppression of Cruelty to Ganders formally
Shark hisself, muttered the old man, limping away; with which sage
Sperm Whale, will yield the bulk of one hundred barrels of oil; and, when it
Stubb, approvingly, coax 'em to it; try that, and Fleece continued.  Do
The whaling-spade used for cutting-in is made of the very best steel; is about
There are those sharks now over the side, don't you see they prefer it tough
What would become of a Greenland whale, say, in those shuddering, icy seas of
Zogranda, one of their most famous doctors, recommends strips of blubber for
a Saturday night and see the crowds of live bipeds staring up at the long rows
a plate representing the old Indian characters chiselled on the famous
a whaling vessel --that these men actually lived for several months on the
a young buck with an intelligent looking calf's head before him, is somehow
a'lee; and then send every one below to his hammock till daylight, with the
about it.  Therefore, the common usage is to take in all sail; lash the helm
about of the same opinion; so give the benediction, Fleece, and I'll away to
accomplished swordsman, warning all hands to stand off, once more makes a
admirable sauce to be eaten with barbacued porpoises, which, you remember,
all angel is not'ing more dan de shark well goberned.  Now, look here,
all hands swearing occasionally, by way of assuaging the general friction.
allusion to the Indian rocks reminds me of another thing.  Besides all the
also seems to me that such scratches in the whale are probably made by hostile
altogether of an irregular, random aspect.  I should say that those New
and as the blubber in one strip uniformly peels off along the line called the
and can't be helped; but to gobern dat wicked natur, dat is de pint.  You is
and every one knows that some young bucks among the epicures, by continually
and ghosts of these creatures.  A sort of generic or Pantheistic vitality
and he certainly deserved it if any murderer does.  Go to the meat-market of
and if he had been put on his trial by oxen, he certainly would have been;
and is all ready for lowering.  The heavers forward now resume their song,
and just as fast as it is thus peeled off, and indeed by that very act itself,
and rare?  What a shindy they are kicking up!  Cook, go and talk to 'em; tell
and soft as satin; that is, previous to being dried, when it not only
and struggling hosts, the marksmen could not always hit their mark; and this
and that is adding insult to injury, is it?  Look at your knife-handle,
and the huge lower block of the tackles was swung over the whale; to this
and while the one tackle is peeling and hoisting a second strip from the
answer?  When dis old brack man dies, said the negro slowly, changing his
any rate, it is pleasant to read about whales through their own spectacles,
are a species of whale.  Porpoises, indeed, are to this day considered fine
are you, cook?  What dat do wid de 'teak, said the old black, testily.
arguments against such a presumption; because you cannot raise any other
armed with their long spades, began cutting a hole in the body for the
array, something like those in the finest Italian line engravings.  But these
as the buffalo's (which is esteemed a rare dish), were it not such a solid
as you may say.  But what I am driving at here is this.  That same infinitely
as you may say; this seems so outlandish a thing that one must needs go a
astern!  The vast tackles have now done their duty.  The peeled white body of
at him, with an Et tu Brute!  expression.  It is not, perhaps, entirely
at last, a swift, startling snap is heard; with a great swash the ship rolls
away the long blanket-piece as if it were a great live mass of plaited
azure sky, upon the fair face of the pleasant sea, wafted by the joyous
banquet that was going on so nigh him, no more than the sharks heeded the
be but the skin?  True, from the unmarred dead body of the whale, you may
because the whale is so excessively unctuous that landsmen seem to regard the
being well seasoned and spiced might be taken for turtle-balls or veal balls.
belong to the church?  Passed one once in Cape-Down, said the old man
beloved fellow-creatures, have you, cook!  And yet you come here, and tell
berry brig mout, brigger dan oders; but den de brig mouts sometimes has de
berry joosy.  Cook, said Stubb, squaring himself once more; do you
better, an Indian poncho slipt over his head, and skirting his extremity.  It
bite off de blubber for de small fry ob sharks, dat can't get into de scrouge
bitin' dare?  Cook, cried Stubb, collaring him, I wont have that swearing.
black or speckled.  In life but few of them would have helped the whale, I
block the great blubber hook, weighing some one hundred pounds, was attached.
blubber-room gentlemen coiling, the mates scarfing, the ship straining, and
blubber-room.  Into this twilight apartment sundry nimble hands keep coiling
blubber.  Among the Dutch whalemen these scraps are called fritters; which,
blubber.  Now as the blubber envelopes the whale precisely as the rind does an
boarding-sword, and watching his chance he dexterously slices out a
body itself.  Nor is this all.  In some instances, to the quick, observant
bowed his arched back still further over, at the same time sideways inclining
bred'ren, just try wonst to be cibil, a helping yourselbs from dat whale.
breezes, that great mass of death floats on and on, till lost in infinite
brought about new revelations of the incredible ferocity of the foe.  They
buried; and though one or two other like instances might be set down,
can fill your dam bellies up to de hatchings, but by Gor!  you must stop dat
can't hear not'ing at all, no more, for eber and eber.  Upon my soul, I am
cannot get at it from the boat, in order to put the chain round it.  But
captured Sperm Whale, after long and weary toil, is brought alongside late at
casket of the skull is broken into with an axe, and the two plump, whitish
causes it to sink low beneath the surface; so that with the hand you
centuries ago the tongue of the Right Whale was esteemed a great delicacy in
clap t'other a'top of your heart, when I'm giving my orders, cook.  What!
close-grained beef, but tougher, more elastic and compact, and ranges from
coming famine; it will be more tolerable for that provident Fejee, I say, in
command, came to a dead stop on the opposite side of Stubb's sideboard;
conciliating the devil.  But, as yet, Stubb heeded not the mumblings of the
concluded; and when, accordingly, Queequeg and a forecastle seaman came on
congregate, and most hilariously feast; yet is there no conceivable time or
considerable hole in the lower part of the swaying mass.  Into this hole, the
contact with other whales; for I have most remarked them in the large,
contracts and thickens, but becomes rather hard and brittle.  I have several
cook, and don't know yet how to cook a whale-steak?  rapidly bolting another
cooked whales; but the Esquimaux are not so fastidious.  We all know how they
country?  he cried, sharply.  No, you didn't, cook; but I'll tell you what
creatures, that warm themselves under the lee of an iceberg, as a traveller
dam racket!  Cook, here interposed Stubb, accompanying the word with a
dare.  you hear?  stop dat dam smackin' ob de lip!  massa Stubb say dat you
de tail!  How you tink to hear, 'spose you keep up such a dam slappin' and
decision about the propriety of devil-worship, and the expediency of
deck to see that all goes well.  But sometimes, especially upon the Line in the
deck, no small excitement was created among the sharks; for immediately
deliver my message.  Here, take this lantern, snatching one from his
dense enveloping layer from the whale's body but that same blubber; and the
desired position.  Well, said Stubb, helping himself freely meanwhile; I
didn't you, and now look yourself, and see where your tongs are pointing.
diminished, by vigorously stirring them up with sharp whaling-spades, a
dining upon calves' brains, by and by get to have a little brains of their
dish, as if stabbing with his lance; cook, you cook! --sail this way, cook!
dish, is his exceeding richness.  He is the great prize ox of the sea, too
done, dish it; d'ye hear?  And now to-morrow, cook, when we are cutting in
done, or else it's no go.  But none of us are in heaven yet.  Drop your
down; wedder Fejee god or Nantucket god; but de god wat made shark must be
eating of him with abhorrence; that appears to result, in some way, from the
eating.  The meat is made into balls about the size of billiard balls, and
eight or ten to twelve and fifteen inches in thickness.  Now, however
ejaculation he went to his hammock.
end of the second alternating great tackle is then hooked so as to retain a
every rod that it so floats, what seem square roods of sharks and cubic roods
every sailor a butcher.  You would have thought we were offering up ten
exceedingly brisk in those Hyperborean waters; but these, be it observed, are
expect to go to, cook?
experiment, that the blood of a Polar whale is warmer than that of a Borneo
eye, those linear marks, as in a veritable engraving, but afford the ground
fat goose?  With a feather of the same fowl.  And with what quill did the
fat to be delicately good.  Look at his hump, which would be as fine eating
fetched Elijah?  And fetch him where?  Up dere, said Fleece, holding his
flat, and its upper end considerably narrower than the lower.  This weapon
flexible bows, bent round, and bit their own; till those entrails seemed
floating in the sun, and the white spray heaving high against it;
floats more and more away, the water round it torn and splashed by the
for far other delineations.  These are hieroglyphical; that is, if you call
for the Fejee that salted down a lean missionary in his cellar against a
for the future, when you cook another whale-steak for my private table here,
found at home, immersed to his lips for life in those Arctic waters!  where,
frosty weather; she trembles, quivers, and nods her frighted mast-heads to
full, and dare bellies is bottomless; and when dey do get em full, dey wont
full-grown bulls of the species.  A word or two more concerning this matter
galley, for, like many old blacks, there was something the matter with his
glued in amber.  But more surprising is it to know, as has been proved by
go on, go on.  Well, den, Belubed fellow-critters: -- Right!  exclaimed
god made him shark, said the savage, agonizingly lifting his hand up and
goin' ober de Roanoke.  Born in a ferry-boat!  That's queer, too.  But I want
grapes was swayed up to the main-top and firmly lashed to the lower mast-head,
grazes the main-top; the men at the windlass then cease heaving, and for a
grizzled head, as if to get both ears in front at one and the same time.
growled, angrily, turning round to depart.  Come back, cook; --here, hand me
has not perceptibly lost anything in bulk.  it is still colossal.  slowly it
have put it out of sight as soon as possible; you see that, don't you?  Well,
he cried at length, widening his legs still further, as if to form a more
hear you den; for den dey sink in de sea, go fast to sleep on de coral, and
heave of the windlass is answered by a helping heave from the billows; till
hieroglyphic palisades on the banks of the Upper Mississippi.  Like those
his blubber is.  That blubber is something of the consistence of firm,
his congregation, with the other hand he solemnly flourished his tongs, and
his head, so as to bring his best ear into play.  Cook, said Stubb, rapidly
his shrill voice, and cried -- Cussed fellow-critters!  Kick up de damndest
his warm hammock at a most unseasonable hour, came shambling along from his
hold upon the blubber, in order to prepare for what follows.  Whereupon, this
hold which the ship has upon the whale when moored alongside, is by the flukes
hole, cook; but no, no, cook, you don't get there, except you go the
honed, just like a razor.  In its socket, a stiff pole, from twenty to
hopeless to teach these fine things!  Of erections, how few are domed like St.
hours, say, on a stretch, little more than the skeleton would be visible by
hundred feet long, it takes away your appetite.  Only the most unprejudiced
idea may hence be had of the enormousness of that animated mass, a mere part
in case a parcel is to be carried anywhere, or a dead slave to be decently
in the log -- shoals, rocks, and breakers hereabouts: beware!  And for
in winter would bask before an inn fire; whereas, like man, the whale has
indeed wrapt up in his blubber as in a real blanket or counterpane; or, still
indeed, requires uncommon discrimination.  And that is the reason why
indeed, they greatly resemble, being brown and crisp, and smelling
indite his circulars?  It is only within the last month or two that that
individual life had departed.  Killed and hoisted on deck for the sake of his
infants, as being exceedingly juicy and nourishing.  And this reminds me
insatiate sharks, and the air above vexed with rapacious flights of screaming
insertion of the hook just above the nearest of the two side-fins.  This done,
integument yields such a lake of liquid as that.  Reckoning ten barrels to the
iron hoops; this old Ebony floundered along, and in obedience to the word of
is a common thing for the seamen to dip their ship-biscuit into the huge
is always kept as sharp as possible; and when being used is occasionally
is by reason of this cosy blanketing of his body, that the whale is enabled to
is considered that, in quantity, or rather weight, that oil, in its expressed
is still fast, the long upper strip, called a blanket-piece, swings clear,
is, a vengeful ghost survives and hovers over it to scare.  Espied by some
jaw?  Cannibals?  who is not a cannibal?  I tell you it will be more tolerable
keep himself comfortable in all weathers, in all seas, times, and tides.
keep his hands off.  But what further depreciates the whale as a civilized
knee-pans, which he did not keep well scoured like his other pans; this old
know how to cook a whale-steak yet.  Bress my soul, if I cook noder one, he
laborious one; is not very soon completed; and requires all hands to set
lantern, old Fleece limped across the deck to the bulwarks; and then, with
leaning far over the side in a mumbling voice began addressing the sharks,
lifting a rather reddish morsel to his mouth, don't you think this steak is
like the transparent, half-jellied, white meat of a cocoanut in the third
little into the history and philosophy of it.  It is upon record, that three
live upon whales, and have rare old vintages of prime old train oil.
lobes being withdrawn (precisely resembling two large puddings), they are
lungs and warm blood.  Freeze his blood, and he dies.  How wonderful is it
man that ever murdered an ox was regarded as a murderer; perhaps he was hung;
marks do not seem to be impressed upon the isinglass substance above
me cutlets for supper to-morrow night in the mid-watch.  D'ye hear?  away you
me such a dreadful lie as you did just now, eh?  said Stubb.  Where do you
mentioned, but seem to be seen through it, as if they were engraved upon the
moment
moment, the old negro muttered, Best cooked 'teak I eber taste; joosy,
month of its growth, yet far too rich to supply a substitute for butter. 
more jovial spirits, than around a dead sperm whale, moored by night to a
morning.  In most other parts of the ocean, however, where these fish do not
mouldy scraps of whales which had been left ashore after trying out the
mouthful at the last word, so that that morsel seemed a continuation of the
much of him; but when you come to sit down before a meat-pie nearly one
murdering of the sharks, by striking the keen steel deep into their skulls,
must keep quiet.  Blast me, if I can hear my own voice.  Away, cook, and
muttered.  And have you lived in this world hard upon one hundred years,
my supper.  Upon this, Fleece, holding both hands over the fishy mob, raised
mystic rocks, too, the mystic-marked whale remains undecipherable.  This
nailest geese to the ground and feastest on their bloated livers in thy
negro in summer.  It does seem to me, that herein we see the rare virtue of a
nevertheless, upon stubb setting the anchor-watch after his supper was
night, it is not, as a general thing at least, customary to proceed at once
not the mightiest whale is free.  Nor is this the end.  Desecrated as the body
not unvexed subject, the skin of the whale.  I have had controversies about it
obscuring the swarming fowls, nevertheless still shows the white mass
occasion when you will find them in such countless numbers, and in gayer or
of dead quadrupeds.  Does not that sight take a tooth out of the cannibal's
of fowls, augment the murderous din.  For hours and hours from the almost
of men like Stubb, nowadays partake of
of sharks gather round the moored carcase, that were he left so for six
of the skin or blubber of the whale.  It has already been said, that it is
of the whale's skin.  In life, the visible surface of the Sperm Whale is not
of whose mere
oil-pots and let them fry there awhile.  Many a good supper have I thus made.
on her side; every bolt in her starts like the nail-heads of an old house in
one dam Ingin.
one dense crowd at the windlass.  When instantly, the entire ship careens over
one hand dropping his light low over the sea, so as to get a good view of
one of the saddest sights you can see.  The head looks a sort of reproachfully
or tail; and as from its greater density that part is relatively heavier
or two the prodigious blood-dripping mass sways to and fro as if let down from
orange, so is it stripped off from the body precisely as an orange is
other phenomena which the exterior of the Sperm Whale presents, he not
outermost enveloping layer of any animal, if reasonably dense, what can that
over obliquely crossed and re-crossed with numberless straight marks in thick
own, so as to be able to tell a calf's head from their own heads; which,
painted green, and which no single man can possibly lift --this vast bunch of
part of the regular linear appearance, by reason of numerous rude scratches,
parties; and though sharks also are the invariable outriders of all slave
pate-de-foie-gras.  But Stubb, he eats the whale by its own light, does he?
perpendicularly frozen into the hearts of fields of ice, as a fly is found
perspectives.  There's a most doleful and most mocking funeral!  The
pickle.  As for the ends of the flukes, have them soused, cook.  There, now
point of junction with its broad flukes or lobes.
porpoise grant from the crown.  The fact is, that among his hunters at least,
preposterous it may at first seem to talk of any creature's skin as being of
procedure notwithstanding, which, in some instances, only seems to tickle
pyramid of fat.  But the spermaceti itself, how bland and creamy that is;
quarrelsomely carving away under the table at the dead meat; and though, were
question is, what and where is the skin of the whale?  Already you know what
question.  Where were you born, cook? 'Hind de hatchway, in ferry-boat,
rather overdone?  You've been beating this steak too much, cook; it's too
regular way, round by the rigging.  It's a ticklish business, but must be
resembling the thinnest shreds of isinglass, only it is almost as flexible
reservation that, until that time, anchor-watches shall be kept; that is,
rope winding through these intricacies, was then conducted to the windlass,
row as ever you can; fill your dam' bellies 'till dey bust --and den die.
sail, then. --Halloa!  stop!  make a bow before you go. --Avast heaving again!
same thing, that is to say, a shocking sharkish business enough for all
scientific dash at the mass, and with a few sidelong, desperate, lunging
scrape off with your hand an infinitely thin, transparent substance, somewhat
scrougin' and slappin' each oder, Massa Stubb; dey don't hear one word; no
sea-vultures all in pious mourning, the air-sharks all punctiliously in
secure base for his supper; and, at the same time darting his fork into the
seemed to lurk in their very joints and bones, after what might be called the
seemingly their only vital part.  But in the foamy confusion of their mixed
seldom displays the back, and more especially his flanks, effaced in great
serpents.  And thus the work proceeds; the two tackles hoisting and lowering
shall now go back to the subject of this steak.  In the first place, how old
shark dood right as toder to dat whale?  And, by Gor, none on you has de right
sharks, sartin; but if you gobern de shark in you, why den you be angel; for
ships crossing the Atlantic, systematically trotting alongside, to be handy
sideboard; now then, go and preach to 'em!  Sullenly taking the offered
sight dragging after it the disengaged semicircular end of the first strip of
sights, to have looked over her side that night, would have almost thought
simultaneously; both whale and windlass heaving, the heavers singing, the
skin of a new-born child.  But no more of this.  Assuming the blubber to be the
skin of the skin, so to speak; for it were simply ridiculous to say, that
skin of the whale; then, when this skin, as in the case of a very large
skin, one of these sharks almost took poor Queequeg's hand off, when he
slicings, severs it completely in twain; so that while the short lower part
smacking of his own epicurean lips.  Cook, cook! --where's that old Fleece?
small bellies; so dat de brigness ob de mout is not to swallar wid, but to
so largely abound, their wondrous voracity can be at times considerably
society passed a resolution to patronize nothing but steel pens.
something like old Amsterdam housewives' dough-nuts or oly-cooks, when fresh.
sometimes pleased myself with fancying it exerted a magnifying influence.  At
sometimes stripped by spiralizing it.  For the strain constantly kept up by
somewhat resembling calves' head, which is quite a dish among some epicures;
state, is only three fourths, and not the entire substance of the coat; some
stationary ship that hideous sight is seen.  Beneath the unclouded and mild
steak cooked as it should be?  Take it, I say --holding the tongs towards him
step with his tongs, which, after a clumsy fashion, were made of straightened
straightway the whale's unharming corpse, with trembling fingers is set down
stript from him in long pieces, called blanket-pieces.  Like most sea-terms,
substance, and then partaking of it.  In the long try watches of the night it
such dried bits, which I use for marks in my whale-books.  It is
sudden slap on the shoulder, -- Cook!  why, damn your eyes, you mustn't swear
sullenly.  And you have once in your life passed a holy church in Cape-Town,
suspending the cutting stages over the side, and lowering three lanterns, so
swallowed over and over again by the same mouth, to be oppositely voided by
swings, else it may box his ears and pitch him headlong overboard.  One of
tackles, among other ponderous things comprising a cluster of blocks generally
tender.  Don't I always say that to be good, a whale-steak must be tough?
than any other (excepting the side-fins), its flexibility even in death,
that certain Englishmen, who long ago were accidentally left in Greenland by
that sort of consistence and thickness, yet in point of fact these are no
that way when you're preaching.  That's no way to convert sinners, Cook!
that your heart, there? --that's your gizzard!  Aloft!  aloft! --that's it --now
the attending harpooneers now advances with a long, keen weapon called a
the beheaded whale flashes like a marble sepulchre; though changed in hue, it
the bigness of a man's spread hand; and in general shape, corresponds to
the capstan, I'll tell you what to do so as not to spoil it by overdoing.
the creature that feeds his lamp, and, like Stubb, eat him by his own light,
the day of judgment, than for thee, civilized and enlightened gourmand, who
the fish, be sure you stand by to get the tips of his fins; have them put in
the gaping wound.  Nor was this all.  It was unsafe to meddle with the corpses
the garden implement after which it is named; only its sides are perfectly
the hieroglyphics upon one Sperm Whale in particular, I was much struck with
the least among the many marvels he presents.  Almost invariably it is all
the main body of the crew striking up a wild chorus, now commence heaving in
the north, if unsupplied with his cosy surtout?  True, other fish are found
the old black, not in any very high glee at having been previously routed from
the old black, with both hands placed as desired, vainly wriggling his
the proper skin of the tremendous whale is thinner and more tender than the
the proper word to use in the present connexion.  By my retentive memory of
the sky, and every one present must take good heed to dodge it when it
the sky.  More and more she leans over to the whale, while every gasping
the whale would by all hands be considered a noble dish, were there not so
the whole round sea was one huge cheese, and those sharks the maggots in it.
the windlass continually keeps the whale rolling over and over in the water,
them into still greater activity.  But it was not thus in the present case
then --except after explanation --that this great monster, to whom corporeal
then mixed with flour, and cooked into a most delectable mess, in flavor
there, my civilized and enlightened gourmand dining off that roast beef,
they most piously do pounce.  Oh, horrible vultureism of earth!  from which
thin, isinglass substance, which, I admit, invests the entire body of the
thing of the sea, and eat it too by its own light.  But no doubt the first
thirty feet long, is inserted for a handle.
this difficulty is ingeniously overcome: a small, strong line is prepared
this one is very happy and significant.  For the whale is
those mysterious cyphers on the walls of pyramids hieroglyphics, then that is
those rocks must not a little resemble the Sperm Whale in this particular.  It
those tongs; --now take that bit of steak there, and tell me if you think that
thousand red oxen to the sea gods.  In the first place, the enormous cutting
through the main hatchway right beneath, into an unfurnished parlor called the
time, a certain cook of the court obtained a handsome reward for inventing an
timid man-of-war or blundering discovery-vessel from afar, when the distance
to dat whale; dat whale belong to some one else.  I know some o' you has
to help demselves.  Well done, old Fleece!  cried Stubb, that's
to know what country you were born in, cook?  Didn't I say de Roanoke
to the business of cutting him in.  For that business is an exceedingly
to!  I mean when you die, cook.  It's an awful question.  Now what's your
ton, you have ten tons for the net weight of only three quarters of the stuff
tongs straight over his head, and keeping it there very solemnly.  So, then,
tongs, cook, and hear my orders.  Do ye hear?  Hold your hat in one hand, and
touching the set terms, places, and occasions, when sharks do most socially
transparent, as I said before; and being laid upon the printed page, I have
tried to shut down the dead lid of his murderous jaw.  Queequeg no care what
two and two for an hour, each couple, the crew in rotation shall mount the
two mariners, darting their long whaling-spades, kept up an incessant
upwards and backwards from the whale, and the triumphant tackle rises into
use a-preachin' to such dam g'uttons as you call 'em, till dare bellies is
vast white headless phantom floats further and further from the ship, and
viciously snapped, not only at each other's disembowelments, but like
violent scraping contact with vast floating icebergs --I should say, that
virtue of interior spaciousness.  Oh, man!  admire and model thyself after the
warmth is as indispensable as it is to man; how wonderful that he should be
ween, if peradventure he had needed it; but upon the banquet of his funeral
whale!  Do thou, too, remain warm among ice.  Do thou, too, live in this world
whale, is not so much to be regarded as the skin of the creature, as the
whale, the chain is readily made to follow suit; and being slipped along the
whale, the other is slowly slackened away, and down goes the first strip
whale-ship at sea.  If you have never seen that sight, then suspend your
whalemen.  The ivory Pequod was turned into what seemed a shamble;
what is that handle made of? --what but the bones of the brother of the very ox
when seamen fall overboard, they are sometimes found, months afterwards,
when,
where you doubtless overheard a holy parson addressing his hearers as his
while Stubb, softly crawling behind, overheard all that was said.
whole air and demeanor, he hisself won't go nowhere; but some bressed angel
will come and fetch him.  Fetch him?  How?  In a coach and four, as they
with a wooden float at its outer end, and a weight in its middle, while the
with both hands folded before him, and resting on his two-legged cane, he
with experienced whalemen afloat, and learned naturalists ashore.
with the Pequod's sharks; though, to be sure, any man unaccustomed to such
without being of it.  Be cool at the equator; keep thy blood fluid at the
woraciousness, fellow-critters, I don't blame ye so much for; dat is natur,
ye may go.
you are eating?  And what do you pick your teeth with, after devouring that
you expect to go up into our main-top, do you, cook, when you are dead?
you have it.  Hold it there now, and pay attention.  All 'dention, said
you is all sharks, and by natur wery woracious, yet I
you stood before, there, over against me, and pay particular attention.
you to turn the whole affair upside down, it would still be pretty much the
your cold-blooded, lungless fish, whose very bellies are refrigerators;
zay to you, fellow-critters, dat dat woraciousness --'top dat dam slappin' ob
