













     A word concerning an incident in the last
     If to Starbuck the apparition of
     Out of the trunk, the branches grow; out
     Stubb's whale had been killed some
     What was it, Sir?  said Flask.  The great live squid, which they say, few
     With reference to the whaling scene shortly to
     a steak, ere I sleep!  You, Daggoo!  overboard you go, and cut me one from
     all that would not one jot advance his grand, monomaniac object.  Very soon
     and the ball, and the explosion; so the graceful repose of the line, as it
     terror, than though seated before your evening fire with a poker, and not a
     this is a thing which carries more of true terror than any other aspect of
     thousands on thousands of sharks, swarming round the dead leviathan,
-- Stand up, and give it to him!  He now has to drop and secure his oar,
-- There!  there again!  there she breaches!  right ahead!  The White Whale,
.. < chapter lx 26  THE LINE >
.. < chapter lxi 17  STUBB KILLS A WHALE >
.. < chapter lxii 19  THE DART >
.. < chapter lxiii 2  THE CROTCH >
.. < chapter lxiv 16  STUBB'S SUPPER >
.. <p 276 >
.. <p 277 >
.. <p 277 >
.. <p 278 >
.. <p 279 >
.. <p 280 >
.. <p 281 >
.. <p 281 >
.. <p 282 >
.. <p 283 >
.. <p 283n. >
.. <p 284 >
.. <p 284n. >
.. <p 285 >
.. <p 286 >
.. <p 286 >
.. <p 287 >
.. <p 288 >
.. <p 289 >
.. <p 289 >
.. <p 290 >
.. <p 291 >
.. <p 292 >
Ahab said nothing; turning his boat, he sailed back to the vessel; the rest
Ahab stood on the bowsprit, and with one hand pushed far behind in readiness
American fishery almost entirely superseded hemp as a material for
But his wild screams were answered by others quite as wild.  Kee-hee!
By experiment its one and fifty yarns will each suspend a weight of one
China, four or five laborers on the foot-path will draw a bulky freighted
Circassian to behold.  The whale line is only two thirds of an inch in
It is worse; for you cannot sit motionless in the heart of these perils,
It will be seen in some other place of what a very light substance the entire
Kee-hee!  yelled Daggoo, straining forwards and backwards on his seat,
Mr. Stubb, said Daggoo.  Yes; both pipes smoked out!  and withdrawing his
Pacifics seemed passed as they shot on their way, till at length the whale
Partly to show the indispensableness of this act, it may here be stated,
Squid.  The manner in which the Bishop describes it, as alternately rising
Start her, Tash, my boy --start her, all; but keep cool, keep cool--
a dusky, dark fellow, a sort of Indian; but Manilla is as a golden-haired
a few inches of the sleepers' hearts.  Peering over the side you could just
a hempen blue smoke now jetted up and mingled with the steady fumes from his
a moment, stood thoughtfully eyeing the vast corpse he had made.
a nest of anacondas, as if blindly to clutch at any hapless object within
account for those repeated whaling disasters --some few of which are casually
accustomed cry, as the great fish slowly and regularly spouted the sparkling
act of feeding, the spermaceti whale obtains his whole food in unknown zones
after dart into the flying fish; at the word of command, the boat
against his wrist in rowing; and also passing between the men, as they
air of the day.  And now abating in his flurry, the whale once more rolled
all engaging one unusually strong, active, and knowing whale; when owing to
all fins.  Stubb and Tashtego here changed places -- stem for stern --a
all swiftly pulling towards their prey.  Soon it went down, and while, with
alluded to on a previous page deserves independent mention.  It is a notched
along the deck, and thrust rattling out of the port-holes.  But by those
alternately sit at the opposite gunwales, to the leaded chocks or grooves in
alternately sterning out of the way of the whale's horrible wallow, and then
an Ethiopian hue, glistening in the sun's rays like a mirror.  But lazily
an announcement immediately followed by Stubb's producing his match and
an enemy's sharp two-edged sword by the blade, and that enemy all the time
and aft, to the imminent jeopardy of themselves and every one else.  It is
and is then
and lost.  For, when the line is darting out, to be seated then in the boat,
and prophesies of the storm, is perhaps more awful than the storm itself;
and sinking, with some other particulars he narrates, in all this the two
and some ten or twenty fathoms (called box-line) being coiled upon the box in
and tasselled, the sharks, also, with their jewel-hilted mouths, are
and turning over on their backs as they scooped out huge globular pieces of
and yells the keels cut the sea.  Meanwhile, Stubb retaining his place in the
and, like the six burghers of Calais before King Edward, the six men
any unknown instant the harpoon may be darted, and all these horrible
apparently precedes
are but one half-inch in thickness; for the bottom of the whale-boat is like
are exposed; the lower end terminating in an eye-splice or loop coming up
arrangement is indispensable for common safety's sake; for were the lower end
as a backwoodsman swings his rifle from the wall.  It is customary to have two
as if that capstan were a sideboard.  Nor was Stubb the only banqueter on
as silently following.  Whatever superstitions the sperm whalemen in general
as they will not fail to elucidate several most important, however intricate
as we eighteen men with our thirty-six arms, and one hundred and eighty
assault.  Yes, a mighty change had come over the fish.  All alive to his
at one and the same time.  In this straining, bawling state, then, with his
attached to the harpoon.  In these instances, the whale of course is shifted
attached to the short-warp --the rope which is immediately connected with the
back to the fish, all at once the exhausted harpooneer hears the exciting cry
be described, as well as for the better understanding of all similar scenes
because the boat is rocking like a cradle, and you are pitched one way and
becomes impossible for the harpooneer, however lightning-like in his
before reaching that point, it blisteringly passed through and through both
being more tight than a harpstring, you would have thought the craft had two
belong, but only as the Anak of the tribe.
below the surface; and only by inference is it that any one can tell of what,
best be likened to the hollow made by a carpenter in countersinking for a
betrayed him; whichever way it might have been, no sooner did he distinctly
block towards the tub, so as in the act of coiling to free it from all
boat in its complicated coils, twisting and writhing around it in almost
boat up to him, while yet the boat was being towed on.  Soon ranging up by
boiling spray, so that the imperilled craft, instantly dropping astern, had
bow of his hoisted boat, then you quick see him 'parm whale.  The next day
bows; a ceaseless whirling eddy in her wake; and, at the slightest motion
bowsman!  and, facing round towards the whale, all hands began pulling the
boys --that's all.  Start her!  Woo-hoo!  Wa-hee!  screamed the Gay-Header in
brine into the air.  clear away the boats!  luff!  cried Ahab.  And obeying
bulk he assigns it.  By some naturalists who have vaguely heard rumors of the
bulwarks.  Vacantly eyeing the heaving whale for a moment, he issued the usual
business, carrying the line high aloft and then reeving it downwards through a
but so as to form one round, cheese-shaped mass of densely bedded sheaves,
but with such a steady tranquillity, and making so few ripples as he swam,
by a few rapid blows against the gunwale, then again and again sent it into
by no means adds to the rope's durability or strength, however much it may
by the head to the stern, and by the tail to the bows, the whale now lies
canted over her spasmodic gunwale into the sea.  Thus they rushed; each man
captured and a corpse.  Consider, now, how it must be in the case of four boats
case of ordinary ropes; for while tar, as ordinarily used, makes the hemp
chapter.  According to the invariable usage of the fishery, the whale-boat
chronicled --of this man or that man being taken out of the boat by the line,
churning, as if cautiously seeking to feel after some gold watch that the
circumstanced without a shudder that makes the very marrow in his bones to
clanking links, the vast corpse itself, not the ship, is to be moored.  Tied
close under our lee, not forty fathoms off, a gigantic Sperm Whale lay rolling
closed eyes; like vices my hands grasped the shrouds; some invisible,
coils of box line (mentioned in a preceding chapter) making this feat, in
completely disengaged from everything.  This arrangement of the lower end is
composing the crew pull into the jaws of death, with a halter around every
connect the ideas of mildness and repose with the first sight of the
conquest, betrayed an unusual but still good-natured excitement.  Such an
contains it in itself, as the seemingly harmless rifle holds the fatal powder,
contortions be put in play like ringed lightnings; he cannot be thus
contracting his spout-hole, with sharp, cracking, agonized respirations.  At
convenient to the sailor for common ship use; yet, not only would the ordinary
corpse in the sea; and it seemed hardly to budge at all, except at long
correspond.  But much abatement is necessary with respect to the incredible
could hook it out.  But that gold watch he sought was the innermost life of
counted upon the honor of the capture.  It was obvious, now, that the whale
craft, takes his proper station in the bows of the boat.  Now, I care not who
critical ice, which will bear up a considerable distributed weight, but
cucumbers is the word --easy, easy --only start her like grim death and
cuttle-fish, to which, indeed, in certain external respects it would seem to
dangling, sharp-edged
dart, the heavy implement has to be flung to the distance of twenty or thirty
darted without recovery.  All these particulars are faithfully narrated here,
dashed the sea-water into it.  More turns were taken, so that the line began
dead, some vague dissatisfaction, or impatience, or despair, seemed working
deck-table are
declare it to be the largest animated thing in the ocean, yet very few of
defray the current expenses of the war (at least before realizing the
denizens of more stirring waters, than those off the Rio de la Plata, or the
designated by Stubb; comprising the tapering extremity of the body.  About
disgorge what are supposed to be the detached arms of the squid; some of them
distance from the ship.  It was a calm; so, forming a tandem of three boats,
does, he would not stop there, for the doomed boat would infallibly be
double, in order to bring down his centre of gravity.  Whole Atlantics and
down his motionless flanks into the sea.  His heart had burst!  He's dead,
dragged down after him into the profundity of the sea; and in that case no
either sensation or instinct; but undulated there on the billows, an
elsewhere presented, I have here to speak of the magical, sometimes horrible
equal to three tons.  In length, the common sperm whale-line measures
ere the boats were down, majestically turning, he swam away to the leeward,
escape being made a Mazeppa of, and run away with where the all-seeing sun
every direction.  All the oarsmen are involved in its perilous contortions; so
evinced his customary activity, to call it so; yet now that the creature was
except under circumstances obvious to any fisherman.  I know that this would
expected to pull his oar meanwhile to the uttermost; indeed, he is expected
extending the entire length of the upper part of the boat, and from its now
feet.  But however prolonged and exhausting the chase, the harpooneer is
fewer glimpses of porpoises, dolphins, flying-fish, and other vivacious
fifty fair chances for a dart, not five are successful; no wonder that so
first boat always hovers at hand to assist its consort.  Second: This
foam; and the tall form of Tashtego at the steering oar crouching almost
for lowering.  The four boats were soon on the water; Ahab's in advance, and
for, indeed, the calm is but the wrapper and envelope of the storm; and
forged along, as if laden with pig-lead in bulk.  Darkness came on; but
forgetfulness altogether came over me, I had noticed that the seamen at the
fro I idly swayed in what seemed an enchanted air.  No resolution could
from a bluff-bowed sluggish galliot into a sharp-pointed New York
from his mouth.  Like desperadoes they tugged and they strained, till the
from his trance into that unspeakable thing called his flurry, the monster
from the bottom against the side of the tub, and hanging over its edge
from the spiracle of the whale, and vehement puff after puff from the mouth
from within, even but of a little finger, the vibrating, cracking craft
furnishing a rest for the wooden extremity of the harpoon, whose other
general thing, and according to the great military maxim, make the enemy
give it compactness and gloss.  Of late years the Manilla rope has in the
gracious agency preserved me; with a shock I came back to life.  And lo!
grinning devils, and raise the buried dead perpendicular out of their graves,
habit accomplish? --Gayer sallies, more merry mirth, better jokes, and brighter
had at length become aware of his pursuers.  All silence of cautiousness was
half-inch white cedar of the whale-boat, when thus hung in hangman's nooses;
hands.  Tumbled into the water, it accordingly is in such cases; the spare
harpoon and the lance, and no rowing whatever should be expected of him,
harpoon, by your side.
harpoon; but previous to that connexion, the short-warp goes through sundry
harpooneers of this world must start to their feet from out of idleness, and
harpoons reposing in the crotch, respectively called the first and second
have connected with the sight of this object, certain it is, that a glimpse
have tried it.  For one, I cannot bawl very heartily and work very recklessly
he elevates it in the air, and invariably does so when going at his utmost
head, and such the tapering cut-water formation of the lower part, that by
headsman should stay in the bows from first to last; he should both dart the
himself could never pierce you out.  Again: as the profound calm which only
his eager glance in the direction indicated aloft by the outstretched
his flank, Stubb, firmly planting his knee in the clumsy cleat, darted dart
his own order, he dashed the helm down before the helmsman could handle the
his small!  Here be it known, that though these wild fishermen do not, as a
his sounding had elapsed, the whale rose again, and being now in advance of
his vapory jet, the whale looked like a portly burgher smoking his pipe of a
holding its place.  The boat now flew through the boiling water like a shark
horribly wallowed in his blood, over-wrapped himself in impenetrable, mad,
hundred and twenty pounds; so that the whole rope will bear a strain nearly
hurled.  Stern all!  The oarsmen backed water; the same moment something
igniting his pipe, for now a respite was granted.  After the full interval of
in a slight festoon over the bows, and is then passed inside the boat again;
in blood, which bubbled and seethed for furlongs behind in their wake.  The
in full play, when every flying beam, and shaft, and wheel, is grazing you.
in general, is it possible to secure it again until the whale is fairly
in him; as if the sight of that dead body reminded him that Moby Dick was
in the water like the capsized hull of a frigate, his broad, glossy back, of
in-shore ground off Peru.  It was my turn to stand at the foremast-head; and
innumerable long arms radiating from its centre, and curling and twisting like
inserted into the starboard gunwale near the bow, for the purpose of
instantly after the other into the same whale; so that if, in the coming drag,
instantly at hand to its hurler, who snatches it up as readily from its rest
intemperately fond of the whale as a flavorish thing to his palate.  A steak,
interior of the sperm whale's enormous head consists.  Though apparently the
intervals; good evidence was hereby furnished of the enormousness of the mass
intricacies, and while straining his utmost at the oar, bethink him that at
iron is already connected with the line, and the line is running, hence that
irons.  But these two harpoons, each by its own cord, are both connected with
is like being seated in the midst of the manifold whizzings of a steam-engine
it of an additional line from a neighboring boat, in case the stricken whale
it round the loggerhead, whence, by reason of its increased rapid circlings,
it sank, once more it slowly rose.  Almost forgetting for the moment all
its tub.  Some harpooneers will consume almost an entire morning in this
jeopardy, he was going head out; that part obliquely projecting from the
junk at the rate of a mile an hour; but this grand argosy we towed heavily
keels -- one cleaving the water, the other the air --as the boat churned
keep shouting at the top of one's compass, while all the other
know that when the second iron is thrown overboard, it thenceforth becomes a
lance (by the line attached to it), Stubb straightened it again and again,
last, gush after gush of clotted red gore, as if it had been the purple lees
least so far as could be known on deck, Stubb, his second mate, flushed with
leg, or entire body off, the utmost precaution is used in stowing the line in
length and breadth, of a glancing cream-color, lay floating on the water,
like Ontario Indians on the gunwales of the boats,
like a mug of ale, as it were, from the one boat to the other; though the
like a pacing tiger in his cage.  Ka-la!  Koo-loo!  howled Queequeg, as if
line.  An instant before, Stubb had swiftly caught two additional turns with
logger-head there, is again carried forward the entire length of the boat,
long sharp lance into the fish, and kept it there, carefully churning and
mad yeast which he brewed.  Start her, start her, my men!  Don't hurry
main and mizen mast-heads were already drowsy.  So that at last all three of
maintains the contrary, but all this is both foolish and unnecessary.  The
majority of failures in the fishery, it has not by any means been so much
man that is tossed to them; and though, while the valiant butchers over the
many hapless harpooneers are madly cursed and disrated; no wonder that some
many ship owners, whaling is but a losing concern; for it is the harpooneer
men.  And all the while, jet after jet of white smoke was agonizingly shot
midnight that steak was cut and cooked; and lighted by two lanterns of sperm
monster like brooks down a hill.  His tormented body rolled not in brine but
monster perpendicularly flitted his tail forty feet into the air, and then
more pliable to the rope-maker, and also renders the rope itself more
more soft and elastic; and I will add (since there is an aesthetics in all
morning.  Though, in overseeing the pursuit of this whale, Captain Ahab had
mortal woman, for the first time, seat himself amid those hempen
most instances, prudently practicable.  But this critical act is not always
most massive, it is by far the most buoyant part about him.  So that with ease
motionless arm of Daggoo.  Whether the flitting attendance of the one still and
movements, to pitch the second iron into him.  Nevertheless, as the second
much ado blindly to struggle out from that phrensied twilight into the clear
muscles are strained and half started --what that is none know but those who
must be subjected; but as most seamen are beginning to learn, tar in general
mysterious creature, here spoken of, it is included among the class of
mystifications too tedious to detail.  Thus the whale-line folds the whole
naked, barbed end slopingly projects from the prow.  Thereby the weapon is
necessary on two accounts.  First: In order to facilitate the fastening to
neck, as you may say.  Perhaps a very little thought will now enable you to
noiseless sails being set.  Presently, as we thus glided in chase, the
not an oar should be used, and no man must speak but in whispers.  So seated
not from out of toil.
not very much of a concentrated one.  When the painted canvas cover is clapped
oars suspended, we were awaiting its reappearance, lo!  in the same spot where
object.  When you see him 'quid, said the savage, honing his harpoon in the
obliquely elevating his head, he thereby may be said to transform himself
of Stubb's hands, from which the hand-cloths, or squares of quilted canvas
of a common quill, prevents it from slipping out.  From the chocks it hangs
of affairs.  One small, helping cause of all this liveliness in Stubb, was
of it being so very unusual, that circumstance has gone far to invest it with
of one; the same line being continuously coiled in both tubs.  There is
of proportionate depth, makes a rather bulky freight for a craft whose planks
of red wine, shot into the frighted air; and falling back again, ran dripping
of the excited headsman; as at every dart, hauling in upon his crooked
of the line in any way attached to the boat, and were the whale then to run
of the ocean; and that the sperm whale, unlike other species, is supplied
of them actually burst their blood-vessels in the boat; no wonder that some
of them, the twigs.  So, in productive subjects, grow the chapters.  The crotch
official superior, quietly resigned to him for the time the sole management
often startled by the sharp slapping of their tails against the hull, within
oil, Stubb stoutly stood up to his spermaceti supper at the capstan-head,
on the american line-tub, the boat looks as if it were pulling off with a
on through both opposing elements at once.  A continual cascade played at the
one should draw out, the other may still retain a hold.  It is a doubling of
or cutting them, and making a prodigious sensation in all directions.  Nor,
or kink in the coiling would, in running out, infallibly take somebody's arm,
or layers of concentric spiralizations, without any hollow but the heart,
or minute vertical tube formed at the axis of the cheese.  As the least tangle
orders for securing it for the night, and then handing his lantern to a
out into view; surging from side to side; spasmodically dilating and
own from his mouth, Stubb scattered the dead ashes over the water; and, for
particular whale he pursued; however this was, or whether his eagerness
passages, in scenes hereafter to be painted.
perceive the white mass, than with a quick intensity he instantly gave orders
pilot-boat.
pipe.  As the line passed round and round the loggerhead; so also, just
play.  And still puffing at his pipe, Stubb cheered on his crew to the
portentousness.  So rarely is it beheld, that though one and all of them
possible wrinkles and twists.  In the English boats two tubs are used instead
precisely, that food consists.  At times, when closely pursued, he will
proceeds of the voyage), yet now and then you find some of these Nantucketers
prodigious great wedding-cake to present to the whales.  Both ends of the line
pushes off from the ship, with the headsman or whale-killer as temporary
quantity too much stiffen the whale-line for the close coiling to which it
quiver in him like a shaken jelly.  Yet habit --strange thing!  what cannot
ranging up for another fling.  The red tide now poured from all sides of the
reach.  No perceptible face or front did it have; no conceivable token of
readily into the boat, and do not strain it so much; whereas, the American
reflection into every face, so that they all glowed to each other like red
repartees, you never heard over your mahogany, than you will hear over the
reply, raising some old war-whoop to the skies; as every oarsman in the
resting crosswise upon the loom or handle of every man's oar, so that it jogs
round a table where red meat is being carved, ready to bolt down every killed
rowing, but by repeated loud and intrepid exclamations; and what it is to
sank out of sight like a tower swallowed up.  There go flukes!  was the cry,
screw.  Though amid all the smoking horror and diabolism of a sea-fight,
seaman, went his way into the cabin, and did not come forward again until
secret seas have hitherto revealed to mankind.  A vast pulpy mass, furlongs in
see them (as before you heard them) wallowing in the sullen, black waters,
seems all but miraculous.  How, at such an apparently unassailable surface,
seen Moby Dick and fought him, than to have seen thee, thou white ghost!
self-adjusting buoyancy and simultaneousness of volition and action, can you
several harpoons to bend on to the line should the first one be ineffectually
sharks will be seen longingly gazing up to the ship's decks, like hungry dogs
should sound so deep as to threaten to carry off the entire line originally
silent, subtle, ever-present perils of life.  And if you be a philosopher,
silently serpentines about the oarsmen before being brought into actual play --
simultaneously dangling about him.  For, of course, each boat is supplied with
slanting sun playing upon this crimson pond in the sea, sent back its
slightly vapored with tar, not impregnated with it, as in the
smacking his lips over a mouthful of Grenadier's steak.  And thus with oars
smackingly feasted on its fatness.  The few sleepers below in their bunks were
solitary jet had gradually worked upon Ahab, so that he was now prepared to
some advantage in this; because these twin-tubs being so small they fit more
some enchanter's wand, the sleepy ship and every sleeper in it all at once
somehow and somewhere; else the most terrible jeopardy would involve all
something over two hundred fathoms.  Towards the stern of the boat it is
sometimes involve a slight loss of speed in the chase; but long experience in
sometimes worn at these times, had accidentally dropped.  It was like holding
somewhat slackened his flight.  Haul in --haul in!  cried Stubb to the
soon made strangely manifest.  Stubb was a high liver; he was somewhat
sound it slowly disappeared again, Starbuck still gazing at the agitated
species of whales find their food above water, and may be seen by man in the
speed.  Besides, such is the breadth of the upper part of the front of his
sperm whalemen are absent four years with four barrels; no wonder that to
spirally coiled away in the tub, not like the worm-pipe of a still though,
spoke.  start her, now; give 'em the long and strong stroke, tashtego.
spokes.  The sudden exclamations of the crew must have alarmed the whale; and
staggering business truly in that rocking commotion.  From the vibrating line
started into wakefulness; and more than a score of voices from all parts of
starts to run, the boat-header and harpooneer likewise start to running fore
steersman, and the harpooneer or whale-fastener pulling the foremost oar,
stick of a peculiar form, some two feet in length, which is perpendicularly
stiletto-like cry that startled every man from his nod, the negro yelled out
strained boat involuntarily bounced forward with the one tremendous leading
strike the first iron into the fish; for often, in what is called a long
striving to wrest it out of your clutch.  Wet the line!  wet the line!  cried
stroke which the eager Indian gave.
stubb to the tub oarsman (him seated by the tub) who, snatching off his hat,
successful, then at the second critical instant, that is, when the whale
such an audacious enterprise, eight or ten loose second irons may be
swarming-time the bees rush to the boughs.  Bare-headed in the sultry sun,
terror, skittishly curvetting about both boat and whale, entangling the lines,
that has caused them.  To insure the greatest efficiency in the dart, the
that makes the voyage, and if you take the breath out of his body how can
that purpose.  Your hat, however, is the most convenient.
that the great Kraken of Bishop Pontoppodan may ultimately resolve itself into
that thinking after all he might not as yet be alarmed, Ahab gave orders that
that to the timid eye of the landsman, they seem as Indian jugglers, with
that, in the old Dutch fishery, a mop was used to dash the running line with
the Pequod's crew could hardly resist the spell of sleep induced by such a
the Squid was a thing of portents, to Queequeg it was quite a different
the White Whale!  Upon this, the seamen rushed to the yard-arms, as in
the bows, it continues its way to the gunwale still a little further aft,
the chances.  But it very often happens that owing to the instantaneous,
the deadliest snakes sportively festooning their limbs.  Nor can any son of
the extreme pointed prow of the boat, where a wooden pin or skewer the size
the fish's flank.  When reaching far over the bow, Stubb slowly churned his
the fish.  And now it is struck; for, starting
the line out to the end almost in a single, smoking minute as he sometimes
the line; the object being this: to dart them both, if possible, one
the monster to which these arms belonged ordinarily clings by them to the bed
the most vague ideas concerning its true nature and form;  notwithstanding,
the night, which obscured the spars and rigging aloft, the two --ship and
the one known as the harpooneer-oar.  Now it needs a strong, nervous arm to
the other, without the slightest warning; and only by a certain
the smoker's boat, and much nearer to it than to any of the others, Stubb
the speed of the whale as the before described exhaustion of the harpooneer
the upper end of the line is taken aft from the tub, and passing round the
the vessel, simultaneously with the three notes from aloft, shouted forth the
the whale of the bigness of a human head.  This particular feat of the shark
the whale.  Pull up --pull up!  he now cried to the bowsman, as the waning
their indolent crests; and across the wide trance of the sea, east nodded to
them have any but
then they change places; and the headsman, the chief officer of the little
therefore no longer of use.  Paddles were dropped, and oars came loudly into
these qualities in him, as well as to the thousand concurring accidents of
they believe it to furnish to the sperm whale his only food.  For though other
they contrive to gouge out such symmetrical mouthfuls, remains a part of the
thickness.  At first sight, you would not think it so strong as it really is.
things), is much more handsome and becoming to the boat, than hemp.  Hemp is
this dangerous affair.  But why say more?  All men live enveloped in
though seated in the whale-boat, you would not at heart feel one whit more of
thoughts of Moby Dick, we now gazed at the most wondrous phenomenon which the
three lights up and down in the Pequod's main-rigging dimly guided our way;
thumbs and fingers, slowly toiled hour after hour upon that inert, sluggish
thunder-claps,  that's all, cried Stubb, spluttering out the smoke as he
thus cannibally carving each other's live meat with carving-knives all gilded
thus exhibited exceeding twenty and thirty feet in length.  They fancy that
till drawing nearer we saw Ahab dropping one of several more lanterns over the
to set an example of superhuman activity to the rest, not only by incredible
to wave his orders to the helmsman, cast
town-crier would ever find her again.  Before lowering the boat for the chase,
tub, nearly three feet in diameter and
turn round on his centre half way, seize his harpoon from the crotch, and
unattended with the saddest and most fatal casualties.  Furthermore: you must
undulating in the trough of the sea, and ever and anon tranquilly spouting
unearthly, formless, chance-like apparition of life.  As with a low sucking
universal problem of all things.  The mark they thus leave on the whale, may
unwonted bustle was he in that the staid Starbuck, his
us lifelessly swung from the spars, and for every swing that we made there
vacant sea.  For this part of the Indian Ocean through which we then were
van, still encouraged his men to the onset, all the while puffing the smoke
various whalemen of more than one nation has convinced me that in the vast
violent, convulsive running of the whale upon receiving the first iron, it
voyaging is not what whalemen call a lively ground; that is, it affords
warm afternoon.  But that pipe, poor whale, was thy last.  As if struck by
was a nod from below from the slumbering helmsman.  The waves, too, nodded
was exceedingly still and sultry, and with nothing special to engage them,
water; in many other ships, a wooden piggin, or bailer, is set apart for
waters where it had sunk, with a wild voice exclaimed -- Almost rather had I
we commenced the slow business of towing the trophy to the Pequod.  And now,
we moved.  For, upon the great canal of Hang-Ho, or whatever they call it, in
we swiftly but silently paddled along; the calm not admitting of the
weapon must, at all events, be anticipatingly tossed out of the boat,
welcome cry was heard -- Stand up, Tashtego! --give it to him!  The harpoon was
went hot and hissing along every one of their wrists.  It was the magical
went out of my body; though my body still continued to sway as a pendulum
were preparing to cast anchor in the deep; for heavy chains are being dragged
west, and the sun over all.  Suddenly bubbles seemed bursting beneath my
whale might have swallowed, and which he was fearful of breaking ere he
whale relaxed in his wrath.  Pull up! --close to!  and the boat ranged along
whale's flesh that night.  Mingling their mumblings with his own mastications,
whale, seemed yoked together like colossal bullocks, whereof one reclines
whale-line.  The line originally used in the fishery was of the best hemp,
whale-lines.  All are born with halters round their necks; but it is only
whale-lines; for, though not so durable as hemp, it is stronger, and far
whale-ships ever beheld, and returned to their ports to tell of it.  But
whale.  No wonder, taking the whole fleet of whalemen in a body, that out of
when caught in the swift, sudden turn of death, that mortals realize the
while the other remains standing.  If moody Ahab was now all quiescence, at
who have a genuine relish for that particular part of the Sperm Whale
will, long after the power which first moved it is withdrawn.  Ere
with its black hull close to the vessel's, and seen through the darkness of
with might and main clinging to his seat, to prevent being tossed to the
with my shoulders leaning against the slackened royal shrouds, to and
with teeth in order to attack and tear it.  There seems some ground to imagine
with what little strength may remain, he essays to pitch it somehow into the
withstand it; in that dreamy mood losing all consciousness, at last my soul
yet to be slain; and though a thousand other whales were brought to his ship,
you expect to find it there when most wanted!  Again, if the dart be
you would have thought from the sound on the Pequod's decks, that all hands
yourselves; take plenty of time --but start her; start her like
