






















     Bouton part of the inscription, yet the word rose, and the bulbous
     Broke it?
     De balena vero sufficit, si rex habeat
     He vows and declares, Monsieur, that the other whale, the dried one, is far
     I wish it was broken, or that I didn't have any nose at all!  answered the
     In vain it was to rake
     Is this the still militant old man, standing at the corners of the three
     Loose-Fish?  What is the principle of religious belief in them but a
     Now this ambergris is a very curious
     The allusion to the waifs
     Ultimately the defendants (the crew of another ship) came up with the whale,
     What now?  said the Guernsey-man to Stubb.  Why, since he takes it so easy,
     a
     berg, to put up), this village was founded in order to afford a place for
     but a
     crim.  con.  case, wherein a gentleman, after in vain trying to bridle his
     lay before you a circumstance that happened within the last two years.  It
     nose in a sort of bag.  What's the matter with your nose, there?  said Stubb.
     puffing tobacco-smoke, so that it constantly filled their olfactories.
     said the Guernsey-man, in French, turning to his captain, that only
     them for Sperm Whale spouts; yes, and sometimes sailing from their port with
     to the defendants; the whale, because it was a Loose-Fish at the time of the
     yet the two substances are quite distinct.  For amber, though at times found
(both letters were published) that he had already done so, and received the
(the reverend gentleman) would decline meddling with other people's business.
-- Bouton-de-Rose, ahoy!  are there any of you Bouton-de-Roses that speak
--so truly English --knowing not what to say, fall to vigorously scratching
--that having a long tow-line in his boat, he would do what he could to help
.  But
.. < chapter lxxxix 2  FAST-FISH AND LOOSE-FISH >
.. < chapter xc 2  HEADS OR TAILS >
.. < chapter xci 2  THE PEQUOD MEETS THE ROSE-BUD >
.. < chapter xcii 31  AMBERGRIS >
.. <p 393 >
.. <p 394 >
.. <p 395 >
.. <p 396 >
.. <p 397 >
.. <p 398 >
.. <p 399 >
.. <p 400 >
.. <p 401 >
.. <p 402 >
.. <p 403 >
.. <p 404 >
.. <p 405 >
.. <p 406 >
.. <p 406 >
.. <p 407 >
.. <p 408 >
.. <p 409 >
According to this little plan of theirs, the Guernsey-man, under cover of an
And by the soundest commentators this has ever been held a cogent argument
And what are you, reader, but a Loose-Fish and a Fast-Fish, too?
Brandreth's pills, and then running out of harm's way, as laborers do in
Captain Coffin was examined at the bar of the English House of Commons on that
Captain's round-house abaft; and looking in that direction saw a fiery face
Cinque Ports are partially or somehow under the jurisdiction of a sort of
Cinque Ports, had after a hard chase succeeded in killing and beaching a fine
Coke-upon-Littleton of the fist.  True, among the more upright and honorable
English?  Yes, rejoined a Guernsey-man from the bulwarks, who turned out
Fast-Fish?  What are the Duke of Dunder's hereditary towns and hamlets but
Fast-Fish?  What to that redoubted harpooneer, John Bull, is poor Ireland,
For example, --after a weary and perilous chase and capture of a whale, the
Frenchman's two whales.  Elsewhere in this volume the slanderous aspersion has
Greece to the Turk?  What India to England?  What at last will Mexico be to
Guernsey-man had a little chat with him, during which the stranger mate
Guernsey-man, who did not seem to relish the job he was at very much.  But
Harpooneer, must have the head, and the Queen be respectfully presented with
I must go.  He says, Monsieur, that his principles won't admit of his
Laws of England, which taken along with the context, means, that of all whales
Leviathans, and proverbially the most dangerous to encounter; excepting
Liberties of the World but Loose-Fish?  What all men's minds and opinions but
Loose-Fish is fair game for anybody who can soonest catch it.  But what plays
Loose-Fish?  What to the ostentatious smuggling verbalists are the thoughts of
Lord Warden's.  Upon this the poor mariners in their respectful consternation
Marking all this, Stubb argued well for his scheme, and turning to the
Mecca, for the same purpose that frankincense is carried to St.  Peter's in
Meddling with other People's Business.  Yes; these laws might be engraven on a
Monsieur had best drop all four boats, and pull the ship away from these
Nevertheless, in the proper place we shall see that no knowing fisherman will
Now that the incorruption of this most fragrant ambergris should be found in
Pandects and the By-laws of the Chinese Society for the Suppression of
Paul in Corinthians, about corruption and incorruption; how that we are sown
Perhaps the only formal whaling code authorized by legislative enactment, was
Philistines, has but two props to stand on.  Is it not a saying in every one's
Queen Anne's farthing, or the barb of a harpoon, and worn round the neck, so
Queen-pinmoney, an old King's Bench author, one William Prynne, thus
Roman tiles and pottery buried in fat English loam.  His boat's crew were all
Rome.  Some wine merchants drop a few grains into claret, to flavor it.  Who
Rose-bud, that it's all nonsense trying to get any oil out of such whales?  As
Stubb was now politely introduced by the Guernsey-man, who at once
Stubb was struck by a shower of outcries and anathemas proceeding from the
Stubb, that somewhere hereabouts are some of those drugged whales we tickled
Whale --no.  Very good, then; good bye now, and I'll call again in a
White Whale?  What whale?  The White Whale --a Sperm Whale --Moby Dick,
Yet so it is.  By some, ambergris is supposed to be the cause, and by others
a Lying-in Hospital.  I partly surmise also, that this wicked charge against
a bunch of posies, will ye, Bouton-de-Rose?  What in the devil's name do you
a fish is technically fast when it bears a waif, or any other recognised
a jackal for ye!  I well know that these Crappoes of Frenchmen are but poor
a reckless, rollicking rate, that no prudent underwriter would insure them
a red cotton velvet vest with watch-seals at his side.  To this gentleman,
a sagacious lawyer like Prynne.  But is the Queen a mermaid, to be presented
a subsequent gentleman re-harpooned her, the lady then became that subsequent
ability at any time to take it alongside, as well as their intention so to
aboard, and mayhap he'll believe you, if he won't me; and so I'll get out of
admirable brevity of it, which necessitates a vast volume of commentaries to
after completely filling her hold with oil, does not, perhaps, consume fifty
afterwards took the fish; ergo, the aforesaid articles were theirs.  A common
again.  Issuing from the cabin, Stubb now called his boat's crew, and pulled
against my principles to drink with the man I've diddled.  In fact, tell him
against whalemen, and which, in the estimation of some already biased minds,
all blending with it for a time.  I have it, I have it, cried Stubb, with
all controllable by the occupant or occupants, -- a mast, an oar, a nine-inch
almost have thought he was digging a cellar there in the sea; and when at
alongside of it.  Yet are there those who will still do it; notwithstanding
alongside.  Upon this the captain started, and eagerly desired to know more.
alongside; and this second whale seemed even more of a nosegay than the
always done; but cutting up the fresh blubber in small bits, thrust it
ambergris, certain hard, round, bony plates, which at first Stubb thought
ambergris, worth a gold guinea an ounce to any druggist.  Some six handfuls
and Stubb returned to the Frenchman.  He now perceived that the Guernsey-man,
and cheese of hundreds of thousands of broken-backed laborers (all sure of
and elucidated by Lord Ellenborough in the above cited case; these two laws
and hailing the pequod to give notice of his intentions, at once proceeded to
and so floated an unappropriated corpse.  It may well be conceived, what an
and then pairs of them would drop their work, and run up to the mast-head to
and waif-poles in the last chapter but one, necessitates some account of the
any more than he would a riotous lad at Yale or Harvard.  They soon relinquish
appeared from his cabin.  He was a small and dark, but rather delicate looking
archbishop of Savesoul's income of 100,000 pounds seized from the scant bread
around him, it was plain that the whale alongside must be what the fishermen
be finally killed and captured by another vessel; and herein are indirectly
become a complete calm; so that whether or no, the Pequod was now fairly
been disproved, that the vocation of whaling is throughout a slatternly,
begging him to take the case of those unfortunate
benevolently towed away at his whale the other way, ostentatiously slacking
blasted whales in general.  The Pequod had now swept so nigh to the stranger,
blasting rocks.  I have forgotten to say that there were found in this
body may get loose from the ship by reason of a violent storm; and drifting
brittle, odorless substance, used for mouth-pieces to pipes, for beads and
broken the stems of their pipes almost short off at the bowl, were vigorously
brought them all into so unsavory and unprofitable a pickle.  Sounding him
but Fast-Fish, whereof possession is the whole of the law?  What to the
but a Fast-Fish?  And concerning all these, is not Possession the whole of
but a Fast-Fish?  What to that apostolic lancer, Brother Jonathan, is Texas
but how like all creation it smells!  Now in order to hold direct
by chopping up and trying out these three masts of ours, than he'll get from
by it, as one river will flow into and then along with another, without at
bye.
cable, a telegraph wire, or a strand of cobweb, it is all the same.  Likewise
call a blasted whale, that is, a whale that has died unmolested on the sea,
called it) to avoid the pest; but still, could not help yelling out his
came into possession?  But often possession is the whole of the law.  What are
captain snapped his fingers in the plaintiffs' teeth, and assured them that by
captured by anybody on the coast of that land, the King, as Honorary Grand
caput, et regina caudam.  Bracton, l 3.  c. 3.  Latin from the books of the
carefully, Stubb further perceived that the Guernsey-man had not the
caught belongs to the King and Queen, because of its superior excellence.
cemeteries, in the Greenland dock, a savor is given forth somewhat similar to
certain Nantucket-born
certainly gave forth no very pleasant savor.  But all this is quite different
chapter with the above appeal, but cannot, owing to my anxiety to repel a
charge often made
chase of a whale in the Northern seas; and when indeed they (the plaintiffs)
commenced an excavation in the body, a little behind the side fin.  You would
communication with the people on deck, he had to pull round the bows to the
companions swim around her with every token of concern, sometimes lingering
comprised many minor contingencies, all partaking of this one grand feature.
comrades quit him.  But strike a member of the harem school, and her
condemned cell.  And as for the other whale, why, I'll agree to get more oil
copy of Blackstone under his arm; and laying it upon the whale's head, he
cruising in company, a whale may be struck by one vessel, then escape, and
cutting-tackles, and at once cast loose the cables and chains confining the
days in the business of boiling out; and in the state that it is casked, the
defendants; Lord Ellenborough was the judge.  In the course of the defence,
delight, striking something in the subterranean regions, a purse!  a
devils in the fishery; sometimes lowering their boats for breakers, mistaking
disappointed, especially as the horrible nosegay increased, when suddenly
discourseth: Ye tail is ye Queen's, that ye Queen's wardrobe may be supplied
divided in the same way as the whale, the King receiving the highly dense and
do.  These are scientific commentaries; but the commentaries of the whalemen
drinking; but that if Monsieur wants to live another day to drink, then
duke so very poor as to be forced to this desperate mode of getting a
eddying cloud of vulture sea-fowl that circled, and hovered, and swooped
elastic head peculiar to that fish, which, symbolically regarded, may
entrapped in the smell, with no hope of escaping except by its breezing up
entreaties and indignations at times.
ever turn up his nose at such a whale as this, however much he may shun
expound it.  First: What is a Fast-Fish?  Alive or dead a fish is technically
expressed his detestation of his Captain as a conceited ignoramus, who had
far away to leeward, be retaken by a second whaler, who, in a calm, snugly
fast, when it is connected with an occupied ship or boat, by any medium at
fat-kettles, and oil sheds; and when the works were in full operation
feigned to cast off from the whale; hoisting his boats, the Frenchman soon
fellow, now, he banteringly laughed, standing in the ship's bows, there's
fight you like grim fiends exasperated by a penal gout.  The Forty-barrel-bull
figure-head put together, sufficiently explained the whole to him.  A wooden
final capture; and the harpoons and line because when the fish made off with
first.  In truth, it turned out to be one of those problematical whales that
fishermen have been their own legislators and lawyers in this matter.  They
fobbing of them.  Now when these poor sun-burnt mariners, bare-footed, and
folded bulb of a bright red color.  Upon her head boards, in large gilt
for Ambergriese in the paunch of this Leviathan, insufferable fetor denying
for that dried up one, there, he hasn't a gill in his whole carcase.  I
foreseeing that all the oil they will get won't be enough to dip the Captain's
forth.  But Plowdon gives us the reason for it.  Says Plowdon, the whale so
forty-barrel-bulls, as they call them, are by far the most pugnacious of all
forward, and in a loud voice commanded his crew to desist from hoisting the
from Stubb; and as for Stubb, he was to utter any nonsense that should come
from a South Sea Sperm Whaler; which in a voyage of four years perhaps,
from me he's a baboon.
from out the very heart of this plague, there stole a faint stream of
from starvation; what is that ruinous discount but a Fast-Fish?  What is the
from the Sovereign.  We must needs inquire then on what principle the Sovereign
fundamentals of all human jurisprudence; For notwithstanding its complicated
furled sails betokened that some sort of whale must be alongside.  As we
gentleman's property, along with whatever harpoon might have been found
get some fresh air.  Some thinking they would catch the plague, dipped oakum
gets from poor Woebegone, the bankrupt, on a loan to keep Woebegone's family
getting nothing at all for our pains but our blisters?  It is his.  Is the
getting the heavy tackles in readiness for the whales.  But they worked rather
glided nearer, the stranger showed French colors from his peak; and by the
gold-hunters.  And all the time numberless fowls were diving, and ducking, and
good ale with their cronies, upon the strength of their respective shares;
had succeeded in harpooning the fish; they were at last, through peril of
hair-powders, and pomatum.  The Turks use it in cooking, and also carry it to
hands into a trumpet and shouted -- No, Sir!  No!  Upon which Ahab retired,
harpoons, and boat, which had remained attached to the whale at the time of
have provided a system which for terse comprehensiveness surpasses Justinian's
have ye seen him?  Never heard of such a whale.  Cachalot Blanche!  White
heart of the learned gentleman with the copy of Blackstone.  At length one of
heaven without any of Savesoul's help) what is that globular 100,000 but a
his cabin to drink a bottle of Bordeaux.  He wants you to take a glass of wine
hold it on.  Fine day, aint it?  Air rather gardenny, I should say; throw us
home to Holland for that purpose.  It was a collection of furnaces,
honest clergyman of the town respectfully addressed a note to his Grace,
huge drooping stalk, was painted green, and for thorns had copper spikes
in coal-tar, and at intervals held it to their nostrils.  Others having
in dishonor, but raised in glory.  And likewise call to mind that saying of
in fobbing his perquisites; which are his chiefly by virtue of that same
in former times, of a Dutch village called Schmerenburgh or Smeerenberg,
in high excitement, eagerly helping their chief, and looking as anxious as
in set terms decided, to wit, --That as for the boat, he awarded it to the
in such matters.  But why should the King have the head, and the Queen the
in this case the alleged right of the Duke to the whale was a delegated one
increased his distance, while the Pequod slid in between him and Stubb's
indeed is it regarded by some, that no cupidity could persuade them to moor
instituted an action to recover possession of her.  Erskine was on the other
internationally and universally applicable.  What was America in
interpreter's office, was to tell the Captain what he pleased, but as coming
is content too with scraping the dry bones of that other precious fish he has
is never found except upon the sea.  Besides, amber is a hard, transparent,
is originally invested with that right.  The law itself has already been set
is to this day in force in England; and as it offers in various respects a
it for his royal master and mistress?  What was Poland to the Czar?  What
it is of a hue between yellow and ash color.  And this, good friends, is
it.  Arrived then at this spot, with one hand still to his nose, he bawled
keep cool--cool?  yes, that's the word; why don't you pack those whales in ice
kindred doctrine of Loose-Fish is still more widely so.  That is
kingdoms, on all hands coercing alms of beggars?  It will readily be seen that
know that well enough; but, d'ye see, the Captain here won't believe it;
laws and regulations of the whale fishery, of which the waif may be deemed
leaning over the quarter-deck rail awaiting his report, he moulded his two
learned.  Though the word ambergris is but the French compound for grey amber,
leaving their defunct bodies almost entirely bankrupt of anything like oil.
length his spade struck against the gaunt ribs, it was like turning up old
letters, he read Bouton de Rose, --Rose-button, or Rose-bud; and this was
litigated in England, wherein the plaintiffs set forth that after a hard
livelihood?  It is his.  I thought to relieve my old bed-ridden mother by
loose-fish, in which Columbus struck the Spanish standard by way of waifing
man for a sea-captain, with large whiskers and moustache, however; and wore
man looking at this decision of the very learned Judge, might possibly object
mariners into full consideration.  To which my Lord Duke in substance replied
means creatures of ill odor; nor can whalemen be recognised, as the people of
might be considered as indirectly substantiated by what has been said of the
might be sailors' trousers buttons; but it afterwards turned out that they
minute.  Then rapidly pulling back towards the Pequod, and seeing Ahab
money, and would be obliged to the reverend gentleman if for the future he
more deadly than the blasted one; in fine, Monsieur, he conjures us, as we
more fit to command a whale-ship than a St.  Jago monkey.  In fact, tell him
mouth, Possession is half of the law: that is, regardless of how the thing
not inquiry.  Sir T. Browne, V. E.  It was a week or two after the last
of babyish to me, though I don't pretend to be a judge.  He says, Monsieur,
of difference between the male and female schools is still more characteristic
of something that looked like ripe Windsor soap, or rich mottled old cheese;
of the Greenland or Right whale was largely used in ladies' bodices.  But this
of the crown's ordinary revenue.  I know not that any other author has hinted
of the great stress of her plunging viciousness, had as last abandoned her;
of the matter; but by inference it seems to me that the sturgeon must be
of the sexes.  Say you strike a Forty-barrel-bull --poor devil!  all his
of the whale and the lady were reciprocally illustrative of each other.  These
of their whale, line, harpoons, and boat.  Mr. Erskine was counsel for the
off for the stranger.  Drawing across her bow, he perceived that in accordance
oil is nearly scentless.  The truth is, that living or dead, if but decently
on the sea-coast, is also dug up in some far inland soils, whereas ambergris
originally harpooned the lady, and had once had her fast, and only by reason
ornaments; but ambergris is soft, waxy, and so highly fragrant and spicy,
ostentatiously put on the aspect of interpreting between them.  What shall I
our old man has thought of that.  It's worth trying.  Yes, I'm for it; and
out a most unusually long tow-line.  Presently a breeze sprang up; Stubb
outrageous moral injustice for one party to claim possession of a whale
paracelsus about what it is that maketh the best musk.  Also forget not the
part of my share of this whale.  It is his.  Won't the Duke be content
parties (meaning himself and mate) and concluded by inviting Stubb down into
perfume, which flowed through the tide of bad smells without being absorbed
perhaps, might have been secured were it not for impatient Ahab's loud command
peril, and some expense, and is all that to go to the Duke's benefit; we
plague, when the living are incompetent to bury the departed.  So intolerable
plaintiffs, because they had merely abandoned it to save their lives; but
pleadings, and the counter pleadings, being duly heard, the very learned judge
policeman or beadle, called a Lord Warden.  Holding the office directly from
possibly be humorously grounded upon some presumed congeniality.  And thus
precious oil and bone; and in fantasy sipping rare tea with their wives, and
precise origin of ambergris remained, like amber itself, a problem to the
present of a little oil for dear charity's sake.  For what oil he'll get from
previously chased or killed by another party.  But others are by no means so
principles laid down in the twin whaling laws previously quoted, and applied
projecting from it here and there; the whole terminating in a symmetrical
prompts the English railways to be at the expense of a separate car, specially
proof of the fact that the above-mentioned law is still in force, I proceed to
property under certain limitations, and nominally supplying the tenth branch
purse!  Dropping his spade, he thrust both hands in, and drew out handfuls
quality, and by no means of the nature of attar-of-rose.  Coming still nearer
rapacious landlord is the widow's last mite but a Fast-Fish?  What is yonder
reap the fruit of his unrighteous cunning.  Seizing his sharp boat-spade, he
rejoined Stubb, and with that he soon mounted to the deck.  There a queer
reserved for the accommodation of royalty.  In the first place, in curious
returned to them.  Why, let me see; yes, you may as well tell him now that --
rose-bud, eh?  he cried with his hand to his nose, that will do very well;
rudimental manufacturing stages, is the worst.  I should like to conclude the
sailors, had all died of a fever caught from a blasted whale they had brought
same bone is not in the tail; it is in the head, which is a sad mistake for
say to him first?  said he.  Why, said Stubb, eyeing the velvet vest and the
says -- Hands off!  this fish, my masters, is a Fast-Fish.  I seize it as the
scene presented itself.  The sailors, in tasselled caps of red worsted, were
schools are larger than the harem schools.  Like a mob of young collegians,
screaming, and yelling, and fighting around them.  Stubb was beginning to look
scrupulous.  Some fifty years ago there was a curious case of whale-trover
seem
seems that some honest mariners of Dover, or Sandwich, or some one of the
separately go about in quest of settlements, that is, harems.  Another point
service to us.  Hearing this, the captain vowed that they were the grateful
ships in London, more than two centuries ago.  Because those whalemen did not
shortness of the season in those Icy Seas, and the sudden and violent storms
side, and getting into his boat, hailed the Guernsey-man to this effect,
side; and he then supported it by saying, that though the gentleman had
sinecure.  But not so.  Because the Lord Warden is busily employed at times
sir, who is the Lord Warden?  The Duke.  But the duke had nothing to do
slightest suspicion concerning the ambergris.  He therefore held his peace on
slow and talked very fast, and seemed in anything but a good humor.  All
small are they.  I. A Fast-Fish belongs to the party fast to it.  II.  A
so near her and so long, as themselves to fall a prey.
so saying he started for the quarter-deck.  By this time the faint air had
so styled by the English law writers -- the whale and the sturgeon; both royal
sold, and his Grace the Duke of Wellington received the money.  Thinking that
some small degree be deemed, under the circumstances, a rather hard one, an
somebody else.  He says, Monsieur, that he's very happy to have been of any
something worth a good deal more than oil; yes, ambergris.  I wonder now if
starboard side, and thus come close to the blasted whale; and so talk over
sticking in her.  Now in the present case Erskine contended that the examples
strange anomaly touching the general law of Fast and Loose-Fish, it is here
strange fact that of all things of ill-savor, Cologne-water, in its
stranger.  But that did in nowise mend the matter, or at all soften the hard
struck, killed, seized, and finally appropriated it before the very eyes of
subject.  for at that time, and indeed until a comparatively late day, the
substance, and so important as an article of commerce, that in
symbol of possession; so long as the party waifing it plainly evince their
tail?  A reason for that, ye lawyers!  In his treatise on Queen-Gold, or
tell him that now I have eyed him carefully, I'm quite certain that he's no
territories become by assignment his.  By some writers this office is called a
that --in fact, tell him I've diddled him, and (aside to himself) perhaps
that Stubb vowed he recognized his cutting spade-pole entangled in the lines
that arising from excavating an old city grave-yard, for the foundations of
that bundle of bones; though, now that I think of it, it may contain
that but a Fast-Fish?  What is the ruinous discount which Mordecai, the broker,
that drugged whale there, wouldn't be fit to burn in a jail; no, not in a
that head, but otherwise was quite frank and confidential with him, so that
that is content with our leavings, the drugged whale there, I mean; aye, and
that it is largely used in perfumery, in pastiles, precious candles,
that it is plainly traceable to the first arrival of the Greenland whaling
that of Holland.  It was decreed by the States-General in A. D.
that upon breaking into the hold, and unloading one of these whale
that were knotted round the tail of one of these whales.  There's a pretty
that with regard to the controverted whale, harpoons, and line, they belonged
the Captain, without his at all dreaming of distrusting their sincerity.
the Frenchman's boats, then, were engaged in towing the ship one way, Stubb
the United States?  All Loose-Fish.  What are the Rights of Man and the
the blubber of the dutch whale fleet to be tried out, without being taken
the crown, I believe, all the royal emoluments incident to the Cinque Port
the day, had betaken himself to the Captain's round-house ( cabinet he
the effect, of the dyspepsia in the whale.  How to cure such a dyspepsia it
the fact that the oil obtained from such subjects is of a very inferior
the grand symbol and badge.  It frequently happens that when several ships are
the heart of such decay; is this nothing?  Bethink thee of that saying of St.
the law?  But if the doctrine of Fast-Fish be pretty generally applicable, the
the likeness of a
the mischief with this masterly code is the
the other day.  I thought they would keel up before long.  Presently, the
the plaintiffs.  And when those defendants were remonstrated with, their
the romantic name of this aromatic ship.  Though Stubb did not understand the
the seas of life; but in the course of years, repenting of that step, he
the seizure.  Wherefore the plaintiffs now sued for the recovery of the value
the sinews and souls of Russian serfs and Republican slaves
the tail.  A division which, in the whale, is much like halving an apple;
the two quickly concocted a little plan for both circumventing and satirizing
the witty Erskine went on to illustrate his position, by alluding to a recent
their fat fish high and dry, promising themselves a good 150 pounds from the
their heads all round;  meanwhile ruefully glancing from the whale to the
their hold full of boxes of tallow candles, and cases of snuffers,
their lives, obliged to forsake not only their lines, but their boat itself.
their noses upwardly projected from their faces like so many jib-booms.  Now
them, after long scratching about for his ideas, made bold to speak.  Please,
them, by pulling out the lighter whale of the two from the ship's side.  While
them, it (the fish) acquired a property in those articles; and hence anybody
themselves sometimes consist in hard words and harder knocks --the
themselves with an essence found in the inglorious bowels of a sick whale!
then, and do not now, try out their oil at sea as the Southern ships have
there is no intermediate remainder.  Now as this law, under a modified form,
there seems a reason in all things, even in law.
there.  Poor devil!  I say, pass round a hat, some one, and let's make him a
they are full of fight, fun, and wickedness, tumbling round the world at such
thinkers but Loose-Fish?  What is the great globe itself but a Loose-Fish?
this dirty scrape.  Anything to oblige ye, my sweet and pleasant fellow,
this is his first voyage; he was a Cologne manufacturer before.  But come
this turbulence though, and when about three fourths grown, break up, and
those wondrous grey-headed, grizzled whales, sometimes met, and these will
though no other nation has ever had any written whaling law, yet the American
through the bung holes of large casks, and carry it home in that manner; the
thrust from behind the door, which was held ajar from within.  This was the
to Stubb to desist, and come on board, else the ship would bid them good
to be the chief-mate.  Well, then, my Bouton-de-Rose-bud, have you seen the
to dry up and die with a sort of prodigious dyspepsia, or indigestion;
to it.  But ploughed up to the primary rock of the matter, the two great
to which they are exposed, forbidding any other course.  The consequence is,
tormented surgeon, who, after in vain remonstrating against the proceedings of
touching Fast-Fish and Loose-Fish, I say, will, on reflection, be found the
tows it alongside, without risk of life or line.  Thus the most vexatious and
tracery of sculpture, the Temple of the Law, like the Temple of the
treated of in a separate chapter, on the same courteous principle that
treated, whales as a species are by no
undetected villain's marble mansion with a door-plate for a waif; what is
unsavory odor such a mass must exhale; worse than an Assyrian city in the
untidy business.  But there is another thing to rebut.  They hint that all
up steps a very learned and most Christian and charitable gentleman, with a
uppermost in him during the interview.  By this time their destined victim
value our lives, to cut loose from these fish.  Instantly the captain ran
vapors in advance slid aside; and there in the distance lay a ship, whose
vapory, mid-day sea, that the many noses on the Pequod's deck proved more
very pleasant smell was smelt in the sea.  I will bet something now, said
very unctuous and savory withal.  You might easily dent it with your thumb;
viewed in some particular lights, the case might by a bare possibility in
vigilant discoverers than the three pairs of eyes aloft.  A peculiar and not
violent disputes would often arise between the fishermen, were there not some
want here?  roared the Guernsey-man, flying into a sudden passion.  Oh!
watch and seals, you may as well begin by telling him that he looks a sort
way of doxology to the deed he had done, he would now retain their line,
were hard to say, unless by administering three or four boat loads of
were nothing more than pieces of small squid bones embalmed in that manner.
were obtained; but more was unavoidably lost in the sea, and still more,
whale which they had originally descried afar off from the shore.  Now the
whale.  Whereupon Stubb quickly pulled to the floating body,
whalemen allowances are always made for peculiar cases, where it would be an
whalers may be likewise imputed to the existence on the coast of Greenland,
whales always smell bad.  Now how did this odious stigma originate?  I opine,
whales to the ship.  What now?  said the Guernsey-man, when the captain had
whales, for it's so calm they won't drift.  By this time Stubb was over the
whaling scene recounted, and when we were slowly sailing over a sleepy,
what are you holding yours for?  Oh, nothing!  It's a wax nose; I have to
which latter name is the one used by the learned Fogo Von Slack, in his great
while you're working at 'em?  But joking aside, though; do you know,
who afterwards took the fish had a right to them.  Now the defendants
who had just got into the chains, and was using a cutting-spade, had slung his
wick into; aye, we all know these things; but look ye, here's a Crappo
wife's viciousness, had at last abandoned her upon
with a quarter or a half?  It is his.  In a word, the whale was seized and
with a tail?  An allegorical meaning may lurk here.  There are two royal fish
with him, said the interpreter.  Thank him heartily; but tell him it's
with taking this fish?  It is his.  We have been at great trouble, and
with the expiring breeze, we saw that the Frenchman had a second whale
with the fanciful French taste, the upper part of her stem-piece was carved in
with their trowsers rolled high up on their eely legs, had wearily hauled
with ye whalebone.  Now this was written at a time when the black limber bone
work on Smells, a textbook on that subject.  As its name imports (smeer, fat;
would think, then, that such fine ladies and gentlemen should regale
written or unwritten, universal, undisputed law applicable to all cases.
yesterday his ship spoke a vessel, whose captain and chief-mate, with six
yet abandon her he did, so that she became a loose-fish; and therefore when
