


















     ( enter Ahab: Then, all.) It
     And what do ye next, men?  Lower away, and after him!  And what tune is
     Aye, Starbuck; aye, my hearties all round; it was Moby Dick that dismasted
     Good!  cried Ahab, with a wild approval in his tones; observing the hearty
     Imperial Electors, so these cabin meals were somehow solemn meals, eaten in
     It was during the more pleasant weather,
     Of modern standers-of-mast-heads we have but a lifeless set; mere stone,
     Suddenly he came to a halt by the bulwarks, and inserting his bone leg into
     Vengeance on a dumb brute!  cried Starbuck, that simply smote thee from
     and tightly, almost convulsively grasping it, addressed them thus: -- All ye
     chase the white whale?  art not game for Moby Dick?  I am game for his
     could almost see that thought turn in him as he turned, and pace in him as he
     mostly float.  For one, I used to lounge up the rigging very leisurely,
     requirest a little lower layer.  If money's to be the measurer, man, and the
     shoals and what rocks must be shunned.  It may seem unwarrantable to couple in
     that my vengeance will fetch a great premium here!  He smites his chest,
     the chick that's in him pecks the shell.  T'will soon be out.  The hours
     to send everybody aft.  Sir!  said the mate, astonished at an order seldom or
     when every foremast-hand has clutched a whetstone?  Ah!  constrainings seize
(ere the final truck was put to it) as that great stone mast of theirs may be
.. < chapter xxxv 2  THE MAST-HEAD >
.. < chapter xxxvi 21  THE QUARTER-DECK >
.. <p 148 >
.. <p 149 >
.. <p 150 >
.. <p 151 >
.. <p 152 >
.. <p 153 >
.. <p 154 >
.. <p 155 >
.. <p 156 >
.. <p 157 >
.. <p 157 >
.. <p 158 >
.. <p 159 >
.. <p 160 >
.. <p 161 >
.. <p 162 >
.. <p 163 >
Admiral Nelson, also, on a capstan of gun-metal, stands his mast-head in
Blanc, or Louis the Devil.  Great Washington, too, stands high aloft on his
Captain Ahab?  And he have one, two, tree --oh!  good many iron in him hide,
Commonly, after seeing the harpooneers furnished with all things they
Daggoo seated on the floor, for a bench would have brought his hearse-plumed
Daggoo, and Queequeg had looked on with even more intense interest and
Dick that took off thy leg?  Who told thee that?  cried Ahab; then pausing,
Dick ye have seen --Moby Dick-- Moby Dick!  Captain Ahab, said Starbuck, who,
Dough-Boy almost looked to see whether any marks of teeth lurked in his own
Dough-Boy's memory by snatching him up bodily, and thrusting his head into a
Egyptians were a nation of mast-head standers, is an assertion based upon the
Flask, have for ever departed from my stomach.  I am an officer; but, how I
For with little external to constrain us, the innermost necessities in our
Greenland-men were; yet that disadvantage is greatly counterbalanced by the
He lived in the world, as the last of the Grisly Bears lived in settled
I might find there; then ascending a little way further, and throwing a lazy
I take it very ill of him that he should so utterly ignore that case-bottle,
In this one matter, Ahab seemed no exception to most American whale captains,
Island days, Queequeg, for one, must certainly have been guilty of some
Let it go.  Look!  see yonder Turkish cheeks of spotted tawn -- living,
Macy, the sole historian of Nantucket, stands accountable.  The worthy Obed
Missouri.  And as when Spring and Summer had departed, that wild Logan of the
Nantucket market.  Nantucket market!  Hoot!  But come closer, Starbuck; thou
Nantucket wool after the great annual sheep-shearing; aye, Tashtego, and he
Queequeg, the harpoons lie all twisted and wrenched in him; aye, Daggoo, his
Receiving the brimming pewter, and turning to the harpooneers, he ordered
Receiving the top-maul from Starbuck, he advanced towards the main-mast with
Southern whale-fishers are not so snugly housed aloft as Captain Sleet and his
Starbuck, lowly.  But in his joy at the enchanted, tacit acquiescence of the
Stylites, the famous Christian hermit of old times, who built him a lofty
Tashtego had an ungentlemanly way of accelerating him by darting a fork at his
Tashtego, opposing his filed teeth to the Indian's: crosswise to them,
That inscrutable thing is chiefly what I hate; and be the white whale agent,
There you stand, a hundred feet above the silent decks, striding along the
Trafalgar Square; and ever when most obscured by that London smoke, token is
Vendome, stands with arms folded, some one hundred and fifty feet in the air;
Voyage among the Icebergs, in quest of the Greenland Whale, and incidentally
a fin; no wondrous feat for Starbuck.  What is it more?  From this one poor
a high raised voice exclaiming: Whosoever of ye raises me a white-headed
a permanent thing, residing in the open air.  Nor did they lose much hereby;
a very different thing.  Now, it was plainly a labor of love for Captain Sleet
a whale, men?  Sing out for him!  was the impulsive rejoinder from a score
accountants have computed their great counting-house the globe, by girdling
act, the undoubted deed --there, some unknown but still reasoning thing puts
adjoining, and fearfully peep out at them through the blinds of its door,
aft, repeated Ahab.  Mast-heads, there!  come down!  When the entire ship's
after a three, four, or five years' voyage she is drawing nigh home with
after breakfast, Ahab, as was his wont, ascended the cabin-gangway to the
after ourselves any other apparatus we may beget.  In shape, the Sleet's
against holy usage for Stubb to precede Flask to the deck.  Therefore it was
ago this same plan was adopted by the Bay whalemen of New Zealand, who, upon
all the wonder.  Captain Ahab, I have heard of Moby Dick--but it was not Moby
among the men; till Stubb cautiously whispered to Flask, that Ahab must have
and Flask is the first man up.  Consider!  For hereby Flask's dinner was badly
and blubber.  Childe Harold not unfrequently perches himself upon the
and dented brow; there also, you would see still stranger foot-prints --the
and fiercely glad and approving, grew the countenance of the old man at every
and nameless invisible domineerings of the captain's table, was the entire
and round the horn, and round the norway maelstrom, and round perdition's
and so at last mount to my ultimate destination.  Let me make a clean breast
and space; like Cranmer's sprinkled Pantheistic ashes, forming at last a
and superb a person.  But, doubtless, this noble savage fed strong and drank
animation into which his unexpected question had so magnetically thrown them.
any mere sailor of the Pequod had a grudge against Flask in Flask's official
any respect the mast-head standers of the land with those of the sea; but
any strange sight.  There is Napoleon; who, upon the top of the column of
any time, permitted there.  So that, in real truth, the mates and harpooneers
anything empty in her --say, an empty vial even --then, her mast-heads are kept
appetites had Queequeg and Tashtego, that to fill out the vacancies made by
are so hopelessly lost to all honorable ambition, as that in their secret
are still entirely incompetent to the business of singing out upon discovering
are these monitions at all unneeded.  For nowadays, the whale-fishery
as cosy as he would standing on a bull's horns.  To be sure, in cold weather
as if to heighten its lustre, and without using any words was meanwhile lowly
as it is a mere envelope, or additional skin encasing you.  You cannot put a
ascend into it through a little trap-hatch in the bottom.  On the after side,
astronomical purposes: a theory singularly supported by the peculiar
at all tend to tranquillize poor Dough-Boy.  How could he forget that in his
at all; and your identity comes back in horror.  Over Descartian vortices you
at sea.  The three mast-heads are kept manned from sun-rise to sun-set; the
at such a thought-engendering altitude, --how could I but lightly hold my
away; the winds blew on; the sails filled out; the ship heaved and rolled as
awful silence; and yet at table old Ahab forbade not conversation; only he
back, harpoonwise.  And once Daggoo, seized with a sudden humor, assisted
bankrupt baker and a hospital nurse.  And what with the standing spectacle of
banquet at Frankfort, where the German Emperor profoundly dines with the seven
baron of salt-junk, seemingly quarried out of the solid ox.  And if he were
beautiful thing that eludes him; every dimly-discovered, uprising fin of some
because, in all my researches, I find none prior to them.  For though their
before.  Ah, ye admonitions and warnings!  why stay ye not when ye come?  But
being the original inventors and patentees), so likewise should we denominate
being, these still drive us on.  The measure!  the measure!  cried Ahab.
belongs to them; and that it is by courtesy alone that anybody else is, at
blindest instinct!  Madness!  To be enraged with a dumb thing, Captain Ahab,
blubber-hunters sweep over thee in vain.  Very often do the captains of such
breathing pictures painted by the sun.  The Pagan leopards --the unrecking and
but a buckler.  in good time, though, to his great delight, the three
but valiantly facing everything out to the last, literally died at his post.
capacity, all that sailor had to do, in order to obtain ample vengeance, was
care-free license and ease, the almost frantic democracy of those inferior
careless, now, who rules the decks below; whether Louis Philippe, Louis
charmingly circumstantial account of the then recently invented crow's-nest
chase that white whale on both sides of land, and over all sides of earth,
cloth was cleared, or rather was restored to some hurried order by the pallid
column marks that point of human grandeur beyond which few mortals will go.
coming up, Ahab, after rapidly glancing over the bulwarks, and then darting
commander's vengeance.  How many barrels will thy vengeance yield thee even
company were assembled, and with curious and not wholly unapprehensive faces,
complexion; or whether he deemed that, on so long a voyage in such marketless
considerable a portion of the whole term of your natural life, should be so
conveniences.  When Captain Sleet in person stood his mast-head in this crow's
convenient closet of your watch-coat.  Concerning all this, it is much to be
crooked jaw, and for the jaws of Death too, Captain Ahab, if it fairly comes
crossing the snowy Alps in winter); so a watch-coat is not so much of a house
crow's-nest is something like a large tierce or pipe; it is open above,
crow's-nest; but though he so enlarges upon many of these, and though he
deck.  There most sea-captains usually walk at that hour, as country
deep of the abounding element of air; and through his dilated nostrils
deep, as if the masts were gigantic stilts, while beneath you and between
demanded, he would escape from their clutches into his little pantry
deplored that the mast-heads of a southern whale ship are unprovided with
descrying the game, gave notice to the ready-manned boats nigh the beach.  But
deviations, azimuth compass observations, and approximate errors, he
did flask presume to help himself to butter.  Whether he thought the owners of
did not last long.  Vehemently pausing, he cried: -- What do ye do when ye see
dignity of an officer, from that moment he had never known what it was to be
ears, all their martial bones jingling in them at every step, like Moorish
ejaculates: -- Roll on, thou deep and dark blue ocean, roll!  Ten thousand
errors resulting from what is called the local attraction of all binnacle
every two hours.  In the serene weather of the tropics it is exceedingly
everything resolves you into languor.  For the most part, in this tropic
except that rocking life imparted by a gently rolling ship; by her, borrowed
eye open, and sing out every time.  And let me in this place movingly admonish
eyes lighted up with the stubbornness of life; the subterranean laugh died
fan-tails like a split jib in a squall.  Death and devils!  men, it is Moby
fellows the harpooneers.  While their masters, the mates, seemed afraid of the
filled their bellies like Indian ships all day loading with spices.  Such
fire.  But neither great Washington, nor Napoleon, nor Nelson, will answer a
fisheries any lad with lean brow and hollow eye; given to unseasonable
flames before I give him up.  And this is what ye have shipped for, men!  to
foot-prints of his one unsleeping, ever-pacing thought.  But on the occasion in
for the White Whale; a sharp lance for Moby Dick!  God bless ye, he seemed
for the re-discovery of the Lost Icelandic Colonies of Old Greenland; in
for their lances and other weapons; and with which whetstones, at dinner,
forth the mouldings of its features from behind the unreasoning mask.  If man
from the hold; nor yet the presaging vibrations of
from the sea; by the sea, from the inscrutable tides of God.  But while this
furnishes an asylum for many romantic, melancholy, and absent-minded young
gallant cross-trees.  Here, tossed about by the sea, the beginner feels about
general belief among archaeologists, that the first pyramids were founded for
gentlemen, after the same meal, take a few turns in the garden.  Soon his
geological stones, with the peculiar mark of his walk.  Did you fixedly gaze,
giants made or nourished.  But Queequeg, he had a mortal, barbaric smack of
gloom!
goes down?  said the Gay-Header deliberately.  And has he a curious spout,
great empty wooden trencher, while Tashtego, knife in hand, began laying out
greatly admire and even love the brave, the honest, and learned Captain; yet
half-slouched hat he continued to pace, unmindful of the wondering whispering
half-throttled shriek you drop through that transparent air into the summer
hammock, a hearse, a sentry box, a pulpit, a coach, or any other of those
hand me yon top-maul.  While the mate was getting the hammer, Ahab, without
harpooneers and seamen, running closer to the excited old man: A sharp eye
he shouted with a terrific, loud, animal sob, like that of a heart-stricken
head to the low carlines; at every motion of his colossal limbs, making the
here.  Perhaps they were; or perhaps there might have been shoals of them in
high and mighty cabin.  In strange contrast to the hardly tolerable constraint
him we have a remarkable instance of a dauntless stander-of-mast-heads; who
him--him-- faltering hard for a word, and screwing his hand round and round as
himself was dumb.  What a relief it was to choking Stubb, when a rat made a
himself,
himself, he will not get more than three mouthfuls that day; for it is
himself, the chances were Ahab had never so much as noticed it.  Least of all,
his crow's nest, within easy reach of his hand.  Though, upon the whole, I
his eyes among the crew, started from his standpoint; and as though not a
his hunger, as keep it immortal in him.  Peace and satisfaction, thought
his life on its summit, hoisting his food from the ground with a tackle; in
holding that if we call our own children after our own names (we fathers
house; turning inwards for a moment, only to be turned out the next; and, as
hover.  And perhaps, at mid-day, in the fairest weather, with one
however it was, Flask, alas!  was a butterless man!  Another thing.  Flask was
however, where it is furnished with a movable side-screen to keep to windward
humming to himself, producing a sound so strangely muffled and inarticulate
hunt, then, the best lance out of all Nantucket, surely he will not hang back,
if thou gettest it, Captain Ahab?  it will not fetch thee much in our
imprecations he shouted out: Aye, aye!  and I'll chase him round Good Hope,
in his head.  Beware of such an one, I say; your whales must be seen before
in it.  For when they did enter it, it was something as a street-door enters a
in that bird's nest within three or four perches of the pole.  But if we
in the cabin was no companionship; socially, Ahab was inaccessible.  Though
in the first degree.  Had he helped himself at that table, doubtless, never
in the way of the business we follow; but I came here to hunt whales, not my
in this matter of the whale?  See Stubb!  he laughs!  See yonder Chilian!  he
in which to keep your speaking trumpet, pipe, telescope, and other nautical
intended to rear the loftiest mast-head in all Asia, or Africa either; yet
into unnecessary excitements; you hear of no domestic afflictions; bankrupt
inventor and patentee, and free from all ridiculous false delicacy, and
inward mould of every outer movement.  D'ye mark him, Flask?  whispered Stubb;
iron, and bronze men; who, though well capable of facing out a stiff gale,
is but a peg higher than Flask, happens to have but a small appetite, and
is even that fair play.  Who's over me?  Truth hath no confines.  Take off
is very discreet and scientific here, yet, for all his learned binnacle
it the Sleet's crow's-nest, in honor of himself; he being the original
it with guineas, one to every three parts of an inch; then, let me tell thee,
it ye pull to, men?  A dead whale or a stove boat!  More and more strangely
its residuary legatees.  They made a sort of temporary servants' hall of the
jammed in point of time.  Starbuck and Stubb both had the start of him; and
jaw they had started as if each was separately touched by some specific
knows very well, Captain Sleet, that he was not so much immersed in those
lean arms.  And when he would hear Tashtego singing out for him to produce
left a deeper mark.  And, so full of his thought was Ahab, that at every
leg over the top-sail yard, take a preliminary view of the watery pastures,
life they feel!  The crew, man, the crew!  Are they not one and all with Ahab,
lofty spars along the sea-coast, to which the look-outs ascended by means of
look ye, Starbuck, what is said in heat, that thing unsays itself.  There are
lookouts of a Greenland whaler are protected from the inclement weather of
low cabin framework to shake, as when an African elephant goes passenger in a
lubber of me for ever and a day!  Then tossing both arms, with measureless
magnets; an error ascribable to the horizontal vicinity of the iron in the
manned to the last; and not till her skysail-poles sail in among the spires
many broken-down blacksmiths among her crew; I say, that though the Captain
marvelling how it was that they themselves became so excited at such
mast-head of some luckless disappointed whale-ship, and in moody phrase
mast-headers have before now heard me give orders about a white whale.  Look
masts, as for a moment their hearts sank in.  For again Starbuck's downcast
mate, Ahab did not hear his foreboding invocation; nor yet the low laugh
mates formed what may be called the first table in the Pequod's cabin.  After
me; Moby Dick that brought me to this dead stump I stand on now.  Aye, aye,
measure of grog.  But what's this long face about, Mr. Starbuck; wilt thou not
meditativeness; and who offers to ship with the phaedon instead of Bowditch
men from whom warm words are small indignity.  I meant not to incense thee.
men, disgusted with the carking cares of earth, and seeking sentiment in tar
miles, and more, to sail ere reaching her proper cruising ground.  and if,
mittened fingers and hooded head he was studying the mathematics aloft there
modern ship sing out for a sail, or a whale just bearing in sight.  In Saint
months.  And it is much to be deplored that the place to which you devote so
mood, thy spirit ebbs away to whence it came; becomes diffused through time
moose; Aye, aye!  it was that accursed white whale that razeed me; made a
more would he have been able to hold his head up in this honest world;
more.  Now, as the business of standing mast-heads, ashore or afloat, is a
most American whalemen the mast-heads are manned almost simultaneously with
most usual point of perch is the head of the t' gallant-mast, where you stand
mount to the apex, and sing out for new stars; even as the look-outs of a
mouthfuls he could keep up the vitality diffused through so broad, baronial,
murderous, convivial indiscretions.  Alas!  Dough-Boy!  hard fares the white
nailed cleats, something as fowls go upstairs in a hen-house.  A few years
nest of his, he tells us that he always had a rifle with him (also fixed in
never given on ship-board except in some extraordinary case.  Send everybody
nevertheless, strange to say, Ahab never forbade him.  And had Flask helped
no gazettes; extras with startling accounts of commonplaces never delude you
nominally included in the census of Christendom, he was still an alien to it.
nominally lived there; still, being anything but sedentary in their habits,
nostrils, he has inhaled it in his lungs.  Starbuck now is mine; cannot
not lively about it, if he did not go with a nimble hop-skip-and-jump, then
now half-revolving in his pivot-hole, with one hand reaching high up a shroud,
objects, man, are but as pasteboard masks.  But in each event --in the living
obligations to observe all whale-ships' standing orders, Keep your weather
ocean at his feet for the visible image of that deep, blue, bottomless soul,
of clubbed voices.
of it here, and frankly admit that I kept but sorry guard.  With the problem
of its fleshly tabernacle, and cannot freely move about in it, nor even move
of the Glacier, which was the name of Captain Sleet's good craft.  He called
of the Pequod might more properly be said to have lived out of the cabin than
of the port, does she altogether relinquish the hope of capturing one whale
of the universe revolving in me, how could I--being left completely to myself
of your head in a hard gale.  Being fixed on the summit of the mast, you
off the stray narwhales, or vagrant sea unicorns infesting those waters; for
once sailed between the boots of the famous Colossus at old Rhodes.  There you
only people the soul by continually flitting through it.  In this enchanted
oppose me now, without rebellion.  God keep me! --keep us all!  murmured
or be the white whale principal, I will wreak that hate upon him.  Talk not
or side next the stern of the ship, is a comfortable seat, with a locker
otherwise than hungry, more or less.  For what he ate did not so much relieve
ounce, my boys!  Huzza!  huzza!  cried the seamen, as with swinging
out of it, without running great risk of perishing (like an ignorant pilgrim
paced; so completely possessing him, indeed, that it all but seemed the
palsy.  Nor did the whetstone which the harpooneers carried in their pockets,
part of every shore the round globe over.  There is no life in thee, now,
pervading mankind and nature; and every strange, half-seen, gliding,
planks so familiar to his tread, that they were all over dented, like
play herein, jealousy presiding over all creations.  But not my master, man,
pleasant the mast-head; nay, to a dreamy meditative man it is delightful.
poor pegging
portentous
predictions from without, as verifications of the foregoing things within.
presumed to help himself, this must have seemed to him tantamount to larceny
prodigious long upliftings of their legs, those old astronomers were wont to
profound magnetic meditations, as to fail being attracted occasionally towards
progenitors, the builders of Babel, must doubtless, by their tower, have
properly speaking the thickest watch-coat is no more of a house than the
question, those dents looked deeper, even as his nervous step that morning
raised a whale yet.  Whales are scarce as hen's teeth whenever thou art up
rather are ye predictions than warnings, ye shadows!  Yet not so much
recollection.  Captain Ahab, said Tashtego, that white whale must be the
regularly launched in pursuit of the game, the people of that island erected
resting in the top to have a chat with Queequeg, or any one else off duty whom
sadly destitute of anything approaching to a cosy inhabitiveness, or adapted
said to have gone by the board, in the dread gale of God's wrath; therefore,
salt-sea warriors would rise and depart; to his credulous, fable-mongering
same intense bigotry of purpose in his aspect.  It drew near the close of day.
same that some call Moby Dick.  Moby Dick?  shouted Ahab.  Do ye know the
sapling cannot, Starbuck!  And what is it?  Reckon it. 'Tis but to help strike
say dainty.  It seemed hardly possible that by such comparatively small
scimetars in scabbards.  But, though these barbarians dined in the cabin, and
sea, no more to rise for ever.  Heed it well, ye Pantheists!
seamen taking their regular turns (as at the helm), and relieving each other
securities; fall of stocks; are never troubled with the thought of what you
see in him outrageous strength, with an inscrutable malice sinewing it.
seeing what a faithful friend and comforter it must have been, while with
seemingly purposeless questions.  But, they were all eagerness again, as Ahab,
seems blasphemous.  Hark ye yet again, --the little lower layer.  All visible
shall have for dinner --for all your meals for three years and more are snugly
shelf or chest of drawers in your body, and no more can you make a
ship's planks, and in the Glacier's case, perhaps, to there having been so
ship.  But for all this, the great negro was wonderfully abstemious, not to
ships take those absent-minded young philosophers to task, upbraiding them
short-sighted; what use, then, to strain the visual nerve?  They have left
shout; while the mariners began to gaze curiously at each other, as if
shuddering sort of little fellow, this bread-faced steward; the progeny of a
shut up in the caved trunk of his body, there fed upon the sullen paws of its
silence, then, that voices thee. ( aside) something shot from my dilated
single hail from below, however madly invoked to befriend by their counsels
sitting silly and dumfoundered before awful Ahab.  Now, Ahab and his three
sleep, this dream is on ye, move your foot or hand an inch; slip your hold
sleeping-time, when they passed through it to their own peculiar quarters.
small and snug contrivances in which men temporarily isolate themselves.  Your
snorts to think of it.  Stand up amid the general hurricane, thy one tost
snuffed in the sublime life of the worlds.  Not by beef or by bread, are
so; thou reddenest and palest; my heat has melted thee to anger-glow.  But
son, and little boy of this weary family party.  His were the shinbones of
soon shows symptoms of concluding his repast, then Flask must bestir
soul were nigh him resumed his heavy turns upon the deck.  With bent head and
souls they would rather not see whales than otherwise.  But all in vain; those
sound of the hinges of their own jaws, the harpooneers chewed their food with
speaking, was slowly rubbing the gold piece against the skirts of his jacket,
splice hands on it, now?  I think ye do look brave.  Aye, aye!  shouted the
spout is a big one, like a whole shock of wheat, and white as a pile of our
stair-like formation of all four sides of those edifices; whereby, with
stand, lost in the infinite series of the sea, with nothing ruffled but the
steady, ivory stride was heard, as to and fro he paced his old rounds, upon
steward.  And then the three harpooneers were bidden to the feast, they being
stone pillar in the desert and spent the whole latter portion of
stowed in casks, and your bill of fare is immutable.  In one of those southern
such a relish that there was a report to it.  They dined like lords; they
sucking his own paws; so, in his inclement, howling old age, Ahab's soul,
sudden racket in the hold below.  And poor little Flask, he was the youngest
summoned them there for the purpose of witnessing a pedestrian feat.  But this
sun do that, then could I do the other; since there is ever a sort of fair
surprise than the rest, and at the mention of the wrinkled brow and crooked
surprise, but at last seemed struck with a thought which somewhat explained
take it, that the earliest standers of mast-heads were the old Egyptians;
tarpaulins they hailed the act of nailing the gold to the mast.  It's a
tells us, that in the early times of the whale fishery, ere ships were
that Flask once admitted in private, that ever since he had arisen to the
that his bones might be picked, the simple-witted Steward all but shattered
that in due rotation with the other seamen my first mast-head came round.  In
that in truth it is not so, is plainly evinced by an item for which Obed
that it seemed the mechanical humming of the wheels of his vitality in him.
that of a whale-ship
that well replenished little case-bottle, so nicely tucked in on one side of
the auger-hole there, and with one hand grasping a shroud, he ordered Starbuck
the black terrific Ahab, and the periodical tumultuous visitations of these
the circle preliminary to scalping him.  He was naturally a very nervous,
the crockery hanging round him in the pantry, by his sudden fits of the
the deck owing to the resistance of the water, but to shoot down upon them is
the distracted decks upon which they gaze; however it may be surmised, that
the far horizon; but lulled into such an opium-like listlessness of vacant,
the frozen seas.  In the fire-side narrative of Captain Sleet, entitled A
the hammer uplifted in one hand, exhibiting the gold with the other, and with
the last person down at the dinner,
the lip in eating --an ugly sound enough --so much so, that the trembling
the mask!  How can the prisoner reach outside except by thrusting through the
the previous repast, often the pale Dough-Boy was fain to bring on a great
the rack), together with a powder flask and shot, for the purpose of popping
the saline beef; his would have been the drumsticks.  For Flask to have
the ship denied it to him, on account of its clotting his clear, sunny
the sun -- it is a sixteen dollar piece, men.  D'ye see it?  Mr. Starbuck,
the top-maul; a white whale.  Skin your eyes for him, men; look sharp for
the various hours you spend at the mast-head would amount to several entire
the vessel's leaving her port; even though she may have fifteen thousand
the winds in the cordage; nor yet the hollow flap of the sails against the
thee; I see!  the billow lifts thee!  Speak, but speak! --Aye, aye!  thy
their departure, taking place in inverted order to their arrival, the canvas
their opera-glasses at home.  Why, thou monkey, said a harpooneer to one of
their spirits penetrate through the thick haze of the future, and descry what
them to produce their weapons.  Then ranging them before him near the capstan,
these lads, we've been cruising now hard upon three years, and thou hast not
they can be killed; and this sunken-eyed young Platonist will tow you ten
they were scarcely ever in it except at meal-times, and just before
they would ostentatiously sharpen their knives; that grating sound did not
thine eye!  more intolerable than fiends' glarings is a doltish stare!  So,
think there's naught beyond.  But 'tis enough.  He tasks me; he heaps me; I
this admirable volume, all standers of mast-heads are furnished with a
this custom has now become obsolete; turn we then to the one proper mast-head,
those enviable little tents or pulpits, called crow's-nests, in which the
though uncorking a bottle -- like him--him-- Corkscrew!  cried Ahab, aye,
three savages, Dough-Boy's whole life was one continual lip-quiver.
till all was over.  It was a sight to see Queequeg seated over against
till he spouts black blood and rolls fin out.  What say ye, men, will ye
to breed a comfortable localness of feeling, such as pertains to a bed, a
to describe, as he does, all the little detailed conveniences of his
to go aft at dinner-time, and get a peep at Flask through the cabin sky-light,
to half sob and half shout.  God bless ye, men.  Steward!  go draw the great
to me of blasphemy, man; I'd strike the sun if it insulted me.  For could the
too, Captain, cried Queequeg disjointedly, all twiske-tee betwisk, like
too, said Daggoo, very bushy, even for a parmacetty, and mighty quick,
too, upon that ribbed
towering main-mast in Baltimore, and like one of Hercules' pillars, his
treats us to a very scientific account of his experiments in this crow's-nest,
unclad body; for as the soul is glued inside
unconscious reverie is this absent-minded youth by the blending cadence of
underneath for umbrellas, comforters, and coats.  In front is a leather rack,
undiscernible form, seems to him the embodiment of those elusive thoughts that
uniform turn that he made, now at the main-mast and now at the binnacle, you
unworshipping things, that live; and seek, and give no reasons for the torrid
upon two thin parallel sticks (almost peculiar to whalemen) called the t'
vanity of glory: there's the insanity of life!  Besides, if it were so that
very ancient and interesting one, let us in some measure expatiate here.  I
waiter who waits upon cannibals.  Not a napkin should he carry on his arm,
wakes round the world, and never make you one pint of sperm the richer.  Nor
wall?  To me, the white whale is that wall, shoved near to me.  Sometimes I
was not a great while after the affair of the pipe, that one morning shortly
was not to be driven from his place by fogs or frosts, rain, hail, or sleet;
waters, butter was at a premium, and therefore was not for him, a subaltern;
waves with thoughts, that at last he loses his identity; takes the mystic
waves.  The tranced ship indolently rolls; the drowsy trade winds blow;
we cannot give these Babel builders priority over the Egyptians.  And that the
were eyeing him, for he looked not unlike the weather horizon when a storm is
whale with a wrinkled brow and a crooked jaw; whosoever of ye raises me that
whalemen, on a long three or four years' voyage, as often happens, the sum of
whaling life, a sublime uneventfulness invests you; you hear no news; read
when I was before the mast.  There's the fruits of promotion now; there's the
whispered Stubb, what's that for?  methinks it rings most vast, but hollow.
white water; if ye see but a bubble, sing out.  All this while Tashtego,
white whale then, Tash?  Does he fan-tail a little curious, sir, before he
white whale, I say, resumed Ahab, as he threw down
white-headed whale, with three holes punctured in his starboard fluke --look
who, as a set, rather incline to the opinion that by rights the ship's cabin
widely contrasting serenity of those seductive seas in which we South fishers
will strike, strike through
wish I could fist a bit of old-fashioned beef in the forecastle, as I used to
with Stubb and Flask, had thus far been eyeing his superior with increasing
with a small compass he kept there for the purpose of counteracting the
with not feeling sufficient interest in the voyage; half-hinting that they
woods, burying himself in the hollow of a tree, lived out the winter there,
wore on; --Ahab now shut up within his cabin; anon, pacing the deck, with the
ye!  d'ye see this Spanish ounce of gold? --holding up a broad bright coin to
ye, whosoever of ye raises me that same white whale, he shall have this gold
yet given that a hidden hero is there; for where there is smoke, must be
yet they also have the privilege of lounging in the rear.  If Stubb even, who
you cannot successfully shoot at them from
you may carry your house aloft with you, in the shape of a watch-coat; but
you, ye ship-owners of Nantucket!  Beware of enlisting in your vigilant
young Platonists have a notion that their vision is imperfect; they are
your legs, as it were, swim the hugest monsters of the sea, even as ships
